Terrence Learns About the Color Wheel
After dinner, Terrence got back to experimenting with his new watercolor set. He liked to mix colors together to see what new color he would get. His drawings were looking much cooler now that he could paint them too.
Terrence was also writing down which color mixes were best. He noticed that when he mixed yellow and blue, he got green. When he mixed yellow and red, he got orange, and when he mixed red and blue, he got purple. A lot of colors that he mixed just came out brown.
Terrence was just making another note about color mixes when his dad came in. His dad looked at Terrence’s notes. “Well I’ll be darned!” his dad said. “I’ll be right back.”
Terrence heard his dad’s computer go on. Then he heard the printer printing.
“Look at this,” his dad said. “You’ve re-invented the color wheel!”
“What do you mean?” Terrence asked, looking at the picture his dad had printed from the computer.
There were three large circles in a triangle. One was red, one was yellow, and one was blue. There were three smaller circles in between each two large circles. Between the yellow and blue circles was a smaller green circle. Between the yellow and red circles was a smaller orange circle. Between the red and blue circles was a smaller purple circle. The six small and large circles formed a larger circular shape, or a wheel shape. At the top of the page was the title: “The Color Wheel.”
“It looks the same!” Terrence’s dad said. “Let’s go get some ice cream to celebrate.”
Henry Matisse
Henry Matisse has often been referred to as one of the great artistic masters of the 20th century. As one of the founders of modern art, Henry Matisee is often compared to Pablo Picasso.
Henry Matisse was able to work with a variety of artistic media. He was a
painter, book illustrator, printmaker, stage and costume designer. Toward the
end of his life Matisse designed a total work of art that today can be found in the Chapel of Rosary at Venice. Matisse designed every detail and item.
Matisse was a patient, and cautious man. His works often were the result of these qualities, as well as long meditations, and preliminary ones. He was well known for his unique use of color that stood out to many aficionados.
Matisse was born in France in 1869. He was the son of wealth grain merchant allowing him to attend Law school. He later had appendicitis. Based on doctor’s orders to relax, his mother bought him art supplies and he began to paint. He found a “paradise” in art. To his father’s dismay he attended Academie Julian in Parts to study art.
At the start of his career he focused on still life and colorful landscapes. Matisse came across the work of Vincent van Gogh. This inspired him to change styles completely. In 1911 Matisse created what is considered to be one of masterpieces “Red Studio”. The painting is not impressive to the untrained eye, but it was a breakthrough in art history because he did things with color that have never been done before. The paint is current in a collection in New York.
Autumn
Autumn is the season that falls between summer and winter. There are many changes
that begin in this fascinating season. Days become shorter. Leaves of trees turn from
green to vibrant red, yellow and orange. Trees need sunlight to keep their leaves a lively green.
Without sunlight leaves turn colors. The grass is no longer blanketed with dew but with frost, almost every morning, as temperatures reach the freezing point. Animals start storing up a food supply to last through the long winter months. These changes occur as we adjust from the heat of the summer to the chill of the winter .
The Elderly Lion
A very Elderly Lion, weakened by old age and old injuries, could no longer hunt for his
food. He lived for a while on grass and berries, but this made him grow still weaker. He decided to use his brain to take what he could not get by force.
The Elderly Lion lay down in his den. He told every animal and bird who passed by that he was very sick. The animals all got the news of Elderly Lion’s illness, and came one by one to visit him. Squirrel came, bringing fresh grasses and berries. Squirrel was not seen after that. Dove came, bringing more fresh grasses and berries. Dove was not seen after that. More animals went to visit the Elderly Lion, and it became clear that animals were disappearing.
Fox thought about the situation. He decided to go and visit the Elderly Lion. He went to the Elderly Lion’s den and stood outside at a respectful distance. “How are you feeling today?” Fox asked.
“Not well, not at all well,” said the Elderly Lion. “But why do you stand there outside? Please—come inside and visit with me for a while.”
“No thank you,” said Fox. “I notice that there are many footprints leading into your den, but I see no trace of any leading out.”
Do you like video games? Lots of people do. There are many types of video games. Some people like action games. Other people like driving games. But the most popular game of all time is a puzzle game.
Tetris is a game about making lines. Blocks fall from the top of the screen. They fall one at a time. The player moves the blocks. Once the blocks hit the bottom, they are locked in place. Players try to make lines go across the screen with no gaps. Complete lines disappear. This gives players more room. The blocks pile up during the game. The game ends when the blocks get to the top of the screen.
A man named Alexey made Tetris in 1984. All the pieces in Tetris have four blocks. The word "tetra" means four. Alexey named his game after tetra and tennis. He made Tetris while working at a science academy in Moscow. Moscow is in Russia.
Alexey made his game on a screen that only showed letters. He could not use blocks. The blocks were made out of letters in the first game of Tetris. Still, all Alexey's friends loved his game. It was easy to learn and fun to play.
Soon the game spread across the world. It was on every computer. It was in arcades. It came with every one of Nintendo's Game Boy. More than 100 million Game Boys were sold. Tetris was all over the place. Even today Tetris comes with many phones.
Dr. Richard Haier has studied Tetris players. He ran many tests. He found that playing Tetris boosts mental activity. Dr. Haier thinks Tetris is good for the brain. I agree with this finding. Now go and play some Tetris. It's just what the doctor ordered.
You like money, right? Most people do. But what is it really worth? Usually, it will buy the goods and services that you expect. But sometimes it's worth less than the paper that it's printed on. I know that sounds hard to believe, but it's happened before.
During World War I, the French and the Germans fought one another fiercely. The war exacted a tremendous cost on both sides. Millions died. Billions of dollars were spent. The French paid for their efforts by taxing their citizens. But the Germans borrowed money to pay for the war. As the war raged on and the Germans borrowed more and more money, the value of their currency dropped.
In those days, the Germans called their money Marks. When World War I started in 1914, a US Dollar was worth around four German Marks. In 1919, after the war ended, a US Dollar was worth about nine German Marks. That means that Germans needed to spend twice as much money to buy the same items after the war. This is called inflation. Since people usually don't start earning twice as much money out of nowhere, it can be a real problem.
While 100% inflation over five years sounds pretty bad, things got much worse after the war. The countries that fought against Germany were upset with them. The French were perhaps most upset. Much of the fighting took place in France, and the country was ravaged. Since France and her allies won the war, they got to set the terms of surrender. France wanted billions of dollars each year. They demanded payments in foreign money, like the US Dollar, not in German Marks.
It was early 1921 by the time these agreements were made. One US Dollar could buy 60 German Marks. Then the Germans started making payments. Things soon spiraled out of control.
The Germans made these payments by printing money. They would trade the money that they printed for foreign currency. But as they printed more and more, the money was worth less and less. In November of 1921, one US Dollar was worth 330 Marks. A year later, one US Dollar was worth 800 German Marks.
The German government grew desperate. They began to trade Marks for foreign money at any rate. This only made things worse. By November of 1923, one US Dollar could buy 4,210,500,000,000 Marks. That is not a typo. The number is 4 trillion. Their money was devalued so fast that German workers had to go to the store right after getting paid. If they waited until the day's end, their money would be worthless. Basic items like stamps and loaves of bread cost billions of Marks. Germans had to figure their expenses in thousands of billions. That made it tough to get through the day if you lacked strong math skills. Some burned the old bills to provide heat. The Marks' value as a fuel had increased beyond its value as a currency.
That the German economy ever recovered is something of a miracle, but it did recover. They created a new currency called the Retenmark. Unlike the old Marks, the new Retenmark was backed by land and gold. This means the currency could be traded for gold or land at a fixed rate. This also meant that the government could only print as much money as they had land and gold to back it. That turned out to be a good thing. By December of 1923, the Retenmark was the official currency. The Germans cut 12 zeros from the prices of their products and it was business as usual. Though they still had a lot of issues to work out, the money was stable. That made life a lot more livable. So while you are out chasing after money, remember that money is little more than a promise, and that promises can be broken.
Have you ever heard the sound of a hummingbird? They make a buzzing noise when they fly. They make this noise because they beat their wings so fast. They beat their wings up to 80 times a second. All that flapping makes a lot of noise. That's why we call them hummingbirds.
Hummingbirds fly in a unique way. They move their wings so fast that they can hover. This means that they can stay in one spot in the middle of the air, like a helicopter. Sometimes they fly or hover upside down. They are the only bird that flies backward.
Hummingbirds are small. One type called the bee hummingbird is the smallest bird in the world. Bee hummingbirds weigh less than a penny. They are just a little bit bigger than bees. I guess that's where they get their name.
Bee hummingbirds build tiny nests. They use cobwebs and bits of bark to make their homes. Their homes are only an inch around. This is big enough for their eggs though. Their eggs are smaller than peas. People have found these tiny nests on a clothespin.
Hummingbirds move fast. It takes lots of energy to move as fast as they do. This means that they need to eat a lot of food. Their favorite food is nectar, a sweet liquid inside of some flowers. They drink more than their own weight in nectar daily. They have to visit hundreds of flowers to get enough nectar to live. They can only store enough energy to survive through the night. They live on the edge.
Hummingbirds don't use their long beaks like straws. They have a tongue just like you. They use their tongues for eating. They flick their tongues in and out of their mouths while inside of flowers. They lap up nectar. Flowers give them the energy that they need.
Hummingbirds help flowers too. They get pollen on their heads and bills when they feed. Flowers use pollen to make seeds. Hummingbirds help pollen get from one flower to the next. This helps flowers make more seeds. More seeds means more flowers. More flowers means more food for hummingbirds. Isn't it nice how that works out?
Playing Catch

Kate and her brother Jake like to play catch. They play with softballs, footballs and tennis balls. They toss the balls back and forth in the yard all the time.
Sometimes they go to the park to have more space for throwing the balls farther. When it is raining out, they play catch in the basement. They use a tennis ball because it bounces off of the basement walls.
Jake is going to soccer camp for a week this summer. Kate is sad because she won’t have anyone to play catch with while he is gone.
The week before Jake leaves, they go to the park together. There is a girl tossing a ball in the air by herself. Kate and Jake invite her to play with them. Her name is Brooke. Kate is happy now that she has a new friend to play catch with while her brother is at camp.
It was only one week until Julie’s birthday. Julie and her mom were in the kitchen. Julie’s mom asked her what kind of birthday cake she would like to have. Julie thought for a long time. Some of her friends liked white cake. Others liked chocolate cake. Julie wanted everyone to like her birthday cake.
Then Julie had an idea. She asked her mom to make a birthday cake with chocolate cake on the bottom, white cake in the middle, and a strawberry cupcake on top, just for the birthday girl—Julie! All of Julie’s friends enjoyed their cake, and Julie enjoyed hers the most of all.
Alex’s grandpa lives in a big city, on the 18th floor of an apartment building. From his grandpa’s windows, Alex can see the whole city. Alex used to be afraid to look out the windows, because they were up so high. But his grandpa would sit with Luca, and point out all the interesting things in the city. Now Luca likes to look out his grandpa’s windows. He can see the library, and the train station, and the park. He feels very grown up.
The Coat
“Do not go outside without your warm coat, Tom. It is very cold, and the snow lies thick on the ground. If you do, then you will catch cold, and you will be sick.”
“I feel quite warm. I don’t need to wear a warm coat.”
“Yes, you do. In here we have a large fire. Outside there is no fire to keep you warm, and the cold wind blows. If you have no warm coat on, you will feel cold.”
However, Tom thought he knew best, so he went outside with no coat on. Tom caught a bad cold and cough. He was in bed quite sick.
Jack, Will and Tom were supposed to play on the frozen pond the next day, but now Tom was too sick to go. When he was in bed, Tom thought how silly he had been. He would try to do all that he was told when he got well.
Tag Rules!
“You’re it!” Nevaeh shouted as she tapped me on the arm. I spotted Raymond and charged after him. He veered to the right and I just missed him. Nevaeh was just past him, so I started chasing after her, but she shouted, “No tag backs!”
“Yeah there are! We didn’t make rules for this tag game, so I can tag you!” I said, out of breath as I ran toward her.
“Then I’m not playing anymore,” replied Nevaeh. And just like that, our tag game was over. How annoying, I thought. Raymond and I stopped to talk.
“I guess this is one reason that people make rules for games,” said Raymond. “We could still be playing if we had agreed on the rules with Nevaeh before we played.”
“I guess,” I said, “but rules are boring. I just want to play!” I decided to try playing with someone else, without rules. I played football and tackled Domingo, who hurt his arm. The other kids didn’t want to play football with me anymore. Next I went on the monkey bars, and went onbeforeAmeliawas to the end of the bars. She surprised me when she turned around and came back on the monkey bars, and we bumped into each other. She cried and told me that now she couldn’t break her monkey bar record. I was by myself again.
“Maybe there is a reason we have rules,” I said to myself as I walked back over by Raymond, who was on the slide. If I would have used rules, Nevaeh would feel like the tag game was fair, so she would still be playing with me. If I had played by the rules and done touch football with the other players, Domingo would not have gotten hurt, and the other kids would still be playing with me. And if I had waited my turn on the monkey bars, Amelia would not be mad at me and could have broken her record, then I could have had my turn.
“Raymond, you’re right, rules are important. They help keep things fair, safe, and fun for everyone. Let’s go talk with Nevaeh about some fair rules for tag.” And off we went.
The Shoemaker and the Elves
A shoemaker and his wife lived in a little house on the edge of the woods. They were very, very poor, and each day they grew poorer and poorer.
At last there was nothing left in the house but leather for one pair of shoes. “I will cut out this last pair of shoes,” the shoemaker said to his wife. “Tomorrow I will sew them and peg them.” So he cut out the leather and left it on his bench.
The next morning he went into his shop to make the shoes. What did he see?
A pair of shoes all nicely made and ready to be sold. The stitches were so neat, and the shoes so well made that they were quickly sold.
With the money, the poor shoemaker bought leather for two pairs of shoes. Then he said to his wife, “I will cut out the leather for two pairs of shoes. Tomorrow I will sew them and peg them.”
So he cut out the leather for the shoes and left it on his bench.
The next morning when he went into his shop to make the shoes, what did he find? Yes, there were two pairs of shoes already made.
The work was so well done that those shoes were also sold very quickly.
With the money, the poor shoemaker bought enough leather for four pairs of shoes. Those he also cut out and left upon his bench. The next morning he found four pairs of beautiful shoes, all well made.
And so it went on and on. Instead of being a very poor shoemaker, he became a very rich shoemaker. His shoes were so well made that even the queen herself wore them.
You might think that all automobile fuels are the same, but they aren't. Automobiles can run on one of three types of fuel: gasoline, diesel, and biodiesel. All these fuels are burned inside of the engine, which creates the heat and energy that is used to power the car. But there are important differences between these fuels. Gasoline and diesel are more common than biodiesel. But each burns differently. Diesel fuel is heavier and less flammable than gasoline, so it has to be compressed before it will burn. Gasoline may be lighter than diesel, but both fuels are made from crude oil. On the other hand, biodiesel fuel is made from vegetables. Both biodiesel and diesel fuels must be burned in diesel engines, which only use diesel fuel. If gasoline is pumped into a diesel engine, it will have to be pumped out. These fuels may look pretty similar at the gas station, but remember that there are important differences between them or it may cost you.
Your tomato plants may be resilient, but there are a couple things that you can do to help them grow rich and lush. First, you should water the tomato plant in the morning. Tomatoes grow best when they can aspirate, or drink water, all day in the sun. If you water them at night, they will have a harder time releasing excess water. Second, you should give them the correct amount of water. Follow the chart on page 67 to determine how much water you should give your tomato plants.
Brandon pressed his nose against the glass case. There it was, Death Fighter 6, the latest video game. Brandon had never wanted anything more. Well, he really wanted Death Fighter 5 too, but this was different. The clerk walked over to him and said, "Is there anything that I can get for you, sir?" Brandon asked, "How much is Death Fighter 6?" The employee said, "$59.99 plus tax, like it says there on the rack, sir." Brandon sighed. This news saddened him. He only had $1.87.
Fellow Members of the Springfield Robotics Club: we have a problem. It has come to my attention that the workshop has been left an absolute mess on at least two separate occasions. Remember, that this is a shared space, so we must clean up behind ourselves after every meeting. It is in the spirit of keeping our club meeting space that we establish this rule: when you take a tool off the rack, put it back. If everyone puts their tools back immediately after using them, there will be minimal mess to clean up, and we won't get kicked out of the spot. So, if you like having a meeting place, and being part of our club, put your tools back.

Yellowstone National Park is mainly located in Wyoming, although three percent is located in the state of Montana. The Continental Divide of North America runs diagonally through the southwestern part of the park. The park sits on the Yellowstone Plateau, which is an average elevation of 8,000 feet above sea level. This plateau is bounded on nearly all sides by mountain ranges. There are 290 waterfalls that are at least fifteen feet in the park, the highest being the Lower Falls of the Yellowstone River, which falls 308 feet.
Daniel was nervous about going to Patricia's birthday party. He was afraid that he wouldn't know anyone but Patricia, and she would be so busy with her guests. "Mom, I don't want to go to the party." Daniel's mother furrowed her brow and said, "Daniel, we already told her we'd be there. We bought her a present. We have to go and give it to her." Daniel shook his head. He still didn't want to go. His mom put her hand on his shoulder.
As Wendy Grant stepped off the plane in Denver, Colorado, seven children rushed to greet her shouting, “Mother!” Four of them spoke with a Vietnamese accent. In her arms Wendy held the gifts she had brought them-twin infant girls from Vietnam, the newest members of the Grant family. The Grants’ six adopted Vietnamese children, and over 1,600 others like them, may well owe their lives to the determination of Wendy, her husband Duane, and a handful of other dedicated women and men.

Like all wars, the war in Vietnam left thousands of children homeless. Their villages had been burned or blown to rubble. Their parents had been killed or lost amid the swarm of refugees clogging the dusty roads. The lucky children were taken in by orphanages. The rest were left to roam rural paths or city streets by themselves. They avoided starvation only by begging, stealing, or rummaging in garbage piles; they slept in gutters. Many were scarred or crippled by land mines, disease, or malnutrition.

It was in 1964 that the Grants, who had already adopted three American children, first heard of the plight of the Vietnamese orphans. Immediately they began the complicated task of adopting one-a girl, whom they named Diahan.

But soon Wendy realized that more must be done. Together with Duane and several other Americans, she founded an organization called Friends for All Children. The group located American homes for the war orphans and helped bring them to the United States. With the money they raised, they set up four orphanages in Vietnam.

Twice Wendy went to Vietnam herself, despite the constant danger of enemy attack. Once she adopted and brought home a girl, Tia, so crippled by polio that she could not even stand. Today, thanks to American doctors, Tia walks unaided. On Wendy’s final trip, with the enemy closing in on the capital city of Saigon, she remained until the last minute, arranging for orphans to be flown to the United States, Canada, and Australia. She narrowly missed a fatal plane crash.

If you someday meet a Vietnamese person with a last name such as Morris, Johnson, Riley, or Russo, remember Wendy Grant and her friends and their important work.
The story of how the girl Pocahontas saved John Smith’s life is well known to most grade-school children. Pocahontas did even more to establish peaceful relations between New World and Old World people. However, Pocahontas was the daughter of Powhatan, chief of a powerful league of over 30 tribes of Algonquian-speaking Indians (Native Americans) in the area around Jamestown, Virginia, in the early 1600s. The young girl’s given name was Matoaka, but she was called Pocahontas, meaning “the playful one.” In 1607, Pocahontas’ life became even more interesting. At that time, a group of English colonists arrived on her people’s land and settled very close to her village. Her father, Powhatan, made no aggressive moves against the settlers at first, but he did feel that they represented a threat to the Indian nation.

By 1608, it began to appear that the English settlers were not going to leave on their own as others before them had. It was at that time that one settler was captured while hunting. The prisoner, John Smith, was brought to Powhatan. According to one source, Smith’s future was about to be decided when Pocahontas cried out for him to be saved. In the Algonquian culture, that kind of request could save a prisoner’s life, so Smith was spared. Smith stayed in the village for several weeks after that and became good friends with many of the Algonquians.

Several braves then returned John Smith to Jamestown and on their return to Powhatan told the chief that the settlers were very ill and starving. Pocahontas overheard this. She did not want these people to die, so she brought food to the settlement on a regular basis during that time. Many said that it was Pocahontas who kept the colony alive.

Over time, however, tension mounted between the Jamestown settlers and the Algonquians, and eventually Pocahontas was forbidden by Powhatan to visit the English settlement. Around that time, the new governor of Jamestown, Samuel Argall, had Chief Powhatan’s daughter taken as a hostage to be traded for English prisoners and some rifles that the Algonquians had taken. Powhatan’s reply to the capture was that he would return the prisoners but not the guns. In fact, Powhatan was quite certain that the settlers would never harm Pocahontas.

Meanwhile, in the Jamestown settlement, Pocahontas was treated very well. She had many friends there already and was allowed to visit from house to house. During her long stay, she took on the religion of the settlers, and she also took the English name Rebecca. It was during this time that she met John Rolfe, a settler who had introduced tobacco growing to the Virginia colony. Rolfe asked permission to marry Rebecca. Permission was granted by the governor of the colony and, 10 days later, by Powhatan. Every Jamestown settler, two of Rebecca’s uncles, and two of her brothers attended the wedding. This union was followed by eight years of peace between the Indians and the English and was often referred to as the “Peace of Pocahontas.”

The Rolfes had one son, Thomas. After Rebecca Rolfe’s untimely death in her early 20s, John and Thomas Rolfe continued to live and work in Jamestown.
Butch dug his spurs into his horse and she kicked up dust. "Giddy up!" he said. I was riding right behind him, but I was a much less capable rider. "Butch, could you wait up for me?" I asked. He didn't. I kicked my horse and tried to get her to move faster. She whinnied and bucked me off her. As I landed with my posterior in a mud puddle, Butch laughed. Then he kept riding. "Butch!" I shouted, "Wait up!" He didn't.

There are many types of lethal venom in the animal kingdom, but perhaps no stranger carrier than the platypus. The platypus is one of few venomous mammals. Male platypus carry a venom cocktail in their ankle spurs. This venom incapacitates victims with excruciating pain. Stranger still, the platypus is the only mammal that uses electroreception. That means that the platypus uses its bill to sense the electricity produced by the muscular movements of its prey. Electroreception is a sixth sense different from seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, or feeling. Perhaps most odd, the platypus is the only mammal that lays eggs rather than giving birth to live young. What an odd creature indeed.
Debra was walking a big black Labrador along the beach. The dog was unleashed, but he didn't seem to stray far from her. As Debra walked in the sand, the Labrador bounded through the waves. As the dog fell a few feet behind Debra, she called out to him, "Come on, Duke! Come here boy!" Duke barked, ran from the water, and caught Debra quickly. Duke was sopping wet. He started licking Debra and almost knocked her down. Debra laughed and tried to wipe the paw prints off her outfit.
It is a widely acknowledged fact that machines are stronger than people. Is it possible for them to become smarter than us too? Some scientists fear that it is, or so says the theory of technological singularity. In a nutshell, the theory of technological singularity says that there will be a moment when a computer can improve its own capabilities. This computer will go into an infinite loop, getting progressively smarter. Inevitably this will lead to machines becoming smarter than people, or so the theory goes. Such gains in available intelligence might lead to huge improvements in science and medicine. Diseases could be cured and such. But it could also lead to the total domination or replacement of mankind by robots, which would be bad. If the latter were the case, I, for one, would welcome our new computer overlords.
Remember, if something is worth doing, it is worth doing correctly. That said, the key to making perfect cookies is merely a matter of preparation and precision. To begin with, read your cookie recipe thoroughly before baking. Make sure that you have all the necessary ingredients before you continue. Next, use good tools and utensils. Sometimes, the craftsperson is only as good as his or her tools. By using good tools you minimize mistakes and improve the quality of your product. Last, use top quality ingredients. Unlike characters in fairytales, you can't turn lead into gold. If you use poor quality materials, you'll create inferior products. So, to make perfect cookies you should use the highest quality materials available. Bon appetite!

"Ice cream! Ice cream!" I heard the street vendor shouting as he pushed his cart down the block. Ice cream sounded really tasty on a day like this. I plunged my hands into my pockets and examined the contents: one pair of house keys, a pack of gum that was almost empty, and a few coins. I pulled the coins from my pockets and counted them. It didn't take long. 46 cents. I saw a line of children from the neighborhood in front of the street vendor. Each walked away happier than the former. My mouth tasted like hot ashes.
The Story of Wise Woman
You may have read how Thomas Smith first farmed rice in South Carolina. After his death, a wise young woman lived in South Carolina. She showed the people how to farm another plant. Her name was Eliza Lucas.
The father of Miss Lucas did not live in South Carolina. He was governor of one of the islands of the West Indies. Miss Lucas was fond of trying new things. She often got seeds from her father which she planted in South Carolina.
Her father sent her some seeds of the indigo plant. She planted some of these in March, but a frost came. The indigo plant cannot tolerate frost, and her plants all died.
Miss Lucas did not give up. She planted some more seeds in April. These grew very well until a cut-worm found them. The worm wished to try new things too. So he ate the indigo plants.
Miss Lucas was one of the people who tried and tried again. She had lost her indigo plants twice. Once more she planted some of the seeds. This time the plants grew very well.
Miss Lucas wrote to her father about it. He sent her a man who knew how to get the indigo out of the plant.
The man tried not to show Miss Lucas how to make the indigo. He did not want the people in South Carolina to learn how to make it. He was afraid his own people would not get so much money for their indigo if other people made it as well.
So he would not explain how it was done. He spoiled the indigo on purpose.
However, Miss Lucas watched him closely. She figured out how the indigo could be made. Some of her father's land in South Carolina was now planted with the indigo plants.
Then Miss Lucas was married. She became Mrs. Pinckney. Her father gave her all the indigo growing on his land in South Carolina. It was all saved for seed. Some of the seed Mrs. Pinckney gave to her friends. Some of it her husband sowed. It all grew and was made into that blue dye that we call indigo. When it is used in washing clothes, it is called bluing. In a few years, more than a million pounds of indigo were made in South Carolina every year. Many people got rich from indigo, and it was all because Miss Lucas did not give up.
The Solver
Kevin loves to read mystery books. He reads mystery books because he likes to try to solve the mystery himself before he gets to the end. Solving puzzles is like solving mysteries, so he likes working on puzzles too. He also likes solving problems. Kevin can usually solve any mystery, puzzle or problem.
One day Kevin’s mom was trying to find her glasses. Without her glasses, she could not drive. This was a problem because she was going to drive Kevin to his friend’s house. It was also a mystery and a puzzle. Kevin really wanted to solve this mystery.
Kevin sat down with his mom. “Where do you last remember seeing your glasses?” he asked.
“I had them on while I was watching the news this morning,” she said.
“Where were you watching the news?” asked Kevin.
His mom thought for a minute, and then she answered that she was in the family room. She remembered sitting in her favorite chair and taking off her glasses when the news ended. She thought she placed her glasses on the table, but they weren’t there.
“Are you sure you didn’t put them on again after the morning news?” asked Kevin.
“Maybe I did,” his mom replied.
“Let’s walk through your day, Mom,” said Kevin.
Kevin had his mom describe everything she remembered doing during the day so far. She mentioned watching the news, making breakfast, folding laundry, working in her home office and then gardening. It was after gardening that she started looking for her glasses.
After hearing about his mom’s day, Kevin retraced her path through the house and yard. He looked under the cushion of her favorite chair, in the kitchen, in the laundry basket, in her office and around the garden. He didn’t find her glasses.
Kevin doesn’t give up easily though so he looked in each place again and he looked even harder. It was on his second go around of the kitchen that he thought to open the cabinets instead of just looking on the counters. Kevin solved the mystery, the puzzle and the problem. He found his mom’s glasses in the drawer with the silverware.
“Thank you, Kevin,” said his mom, “I wouldn’t be able to see anything without you.”
In Search of Flowers

A little girl went in search of flowers for her mother. It was early in the day, and the grass was wet. Sweet little birds were singing all around her.
What do you think she found besides flowers? She found a nest with young birds in it.
While she was looking at them, she heard the mother bird chirp as if to say, “Do not touch my children, little girl, for I love them dearly.”
The little girl thought how dearly her own mother loved her.
So she left the birds. Then picking some flowers, she went home, and she told her mother what she had seen and heard.
Molly took her new bike out to the sidewalk. Her dad was going to teach her to ride it. He said it was easy, but she wasn’t so sure. He said not to worry, but she wasn’t so sure. She got on the bike, and her dad ran beside her, holding on to keep her steady. The bike wiggled a little, but Molly rode to the end of the block. She put on the brakes and looked around. Her dad was all the up the sidewalk—she had been riding all by herself! After that, Molly never worried about riding a bike. She knew that she could do it.
Gary has two goldfish. They live in a bowl filled with water. The fishbowl is Gary’s room. Every morning, Gary gives his goldfish a little fish food from a little box. Gary likes to watch his goldfish swim around in their bowl.
One day Gary’s mom said she had a surprise for him. They drove to the pet store. Gary’s mom let him pick out a decoration for his fishbowl. Gary looked at all the decorations. It was hard to decide!
There were little plastic plants of all kinds. There were shiny rocks, and seashells. Finally, Gary picked out a little castle with windows and doors. Now his fish can swim in and out of the castle. It is even more fun to watch them!
Cardboard Town

Fine, I’ll just do it all myself! I thought as I stomped away. My friends and I were trying to make the best cardboard town to play in. We had boxes that we were turning into stores and playgrounds and all sorts of other fun things! We weren’t getting along very well, though. I could hear them talking as I was walking away.
“Wow, I didn’t think he’d get so mad,” Katie said.
“This was supposed to be fun,” said Max. “Johnny can’t do it all by himself. Maybe if we give him some space he’ll want us to help again.”
Yeah, right. Since it was my idea, I would just do it without them. The only problem was that I wanted it done before Thanksgiving so that I could show all of my family when they came over.
When Thanksgiving was two weeks away, I realized that it was just too big of a job. I couldn’t make the buildings out of boxes, and put them around the town, and decorate them all by myself. It was taking way too long. I guess that’s why people work together. When we each had a job, this was fun and went a lot faster. Maybe I should say sorry to Katie and Max, they were just trying to help and have fun with me.
The next day at school I said sorry to Katie and Max. “I don’t know why I got so mad, building a town was just supposed to be fun. Will you come back to my house today to complete our town?” I asked.
“Sure, Johnny,” they said. We all took on a role and the town was done in no time. It was great!
E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial is a video game that came out for the Atari 2600 game system in 1982. It was based on a very popular film of the same name. It cost over 125 million dollars to make. Star programmer Howard Scott Warshaw created it with consultation from Steven Spielberg. And it is widely considered to be one of the worst video games ever created. The massive failure of E.T. and its effects on Atari is an often-mentioned reason for the video game industry crash of 1983.
It was July 27th, 1982. Howard Scott Warshaw was hot off the success of his most recent game, Raiders of the Lost Ark. He received a call from Atari C.E.O. Ray Kassar. Atari had bought the rights to make a video game version of Spielberg's movie, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, which had just been released in June. Kassar told Warshaw that Spielberg had specifically asked for Warshaw to make the game. Warshaw was honored, but there was one huge problem. Atari needed the game finished by September 1st in order to start selling it during the Christmas season.
It had taken Warshaw six months to create Raiders of the Lost Ark. The game he made prior to that took him seven months. He was expected to create E.T. in around five weeks. Warshaw just did not have enough time to program the game properly, but he accepted the challenge anyway and production began. Spielberg wanted Warshaw to create a simple maze game, similar to Pac-Man, but Warshaw had a bigger vision. He wanted players to explore different environments in a 3D world. Warshaw followed his vision.
Atari anticipated that the game would be a huge success. Usually companies like Atari have people test games before releasing them. If there is something that testers really dislike, programmers can fix it before the public gets a chance to play. Atari decided to skip testing due to time limitations. They wanted the game released during the holiday season. It was: E.T. was released in December of 1982.
The game sold very well at first. It was a hot holiday item. Unfortunately, Atari overestimated how many they would sell. They made 5 million copies and they only sold 1.5 million. Most people who played the game hated it. The graphics were bad. Game play was awkward. Players got stuck in holes that they couldn't escape. A short time limit made the game difficult to explore and frustrating to play. Some people who stuck with the game grew to like it, but it wasn't the mainstream success that Atari had hoped it would be.
Too many copies of the game sat on store shelves. One employee remembers the game being discounted five times, from $49.95 to less than a dollar. Many people returned the game. Atari was left with millions of unsold copies. In September of 1983, a newspaper in New Mexico reported that between 10 and 20 semitrailer truckloads of Atari products were crushed and buried at a landfill in Alamogordo. Perhaps a million or more copies of E.T. were buried in the desert. When word got out, the drop site had to be covered with cement to prevent scavenging.
Atari lost over $100 million on E.T. The game was so bad that it was said to have affected Atari's reputation. The video game industry soon fell into a deep depression. In 1983 the industry made $3.2 billion. By 1985 profit fell to just over $100 million. This was almost a 97% drop. Many critics believe that Atari's blunder on E.T. was one of the causes leading to this depression. E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial will long be remembered as one of the worst video games ever made, if not one of the causes of the decline of the entire video game industry.
What's more fun than standing still? Jumping up and down on a springy piece of fabric! This activity is known as trampolining and it's sweeping the nation.
The idea of trampolining is ancient. Eskimos have been tossing each other in the air using walrus skin for thousands of years. Firemen began using a life net to catch people jumping from buildings in 1887. And in the early 1900s, circus performers began bouncing off of netting to amuse audiences. These weren't the same as today's trampolines, but they show that the idea has been bouncing around for a long time.
A tumbler named George Nissan and his coach Larry Griswold made the first modern trampoline in 1936. They got the idea by watching trapeze artists bouncing off of a tight net at the circus. The two men experimented with different fabrics and designs. They found a winner when they stretched a piece of canvas across a steel frame and held it in place with springs. They named their device after the Spanish word trampolín, which means diving board.
At first Nissan and Griswold used their device to train tumblers. The piece of training equipment was a lot of fun. They realized that everyone could enjoy their trampoline, not just tumblers. The men wanted to share their idea with the whole world. In 1942 they began making trampolines to sell to the public.
Trampolines may be fun, but they can also be dangerous. Experts estimate that more than 100,000 people hurt themselves while using one each year. Clubs and gyms use large safety nets and rubber padding to make it safer. Most trampoline injuries happen at home. Since trampolines are more affordable than ever, injuries are even more common.
These injuries happen for many reasons. People may bounce too high and land off of the trampoline or onto the springs. From the peak of the bounce, this can be a fall of 13 feet or more.
Ouch. Injuries also happen when many people are jumping at the same time. Jumpers may collide and cause one another to land in strange ways.
Lots of people have broken bones in this way. Perhaps the worst injuries happen when untrained people try to do flips. Landing on your neck or head can paralyze or even kill you.
But don't let all that bad news keep you down. There are many things that you can do to practice safe trampolining. You can cover the springs with special pads so that people's limbs are less likely to get stuck in them. You can surround your trampoline with a net so that people don't fall off of it. You can limit bouncers to one at a time. This will prevent collision injuries. Perhaps most importantly, you should never flip on a trampoline without professional guidance. You are much less likely to get hurt on a trampoline if you do these things.
Trampolines have been around for a while now. They have brought a lot of joy to many people. There is no feeling quite like soaring up in the air and then free-falling. Trampolines can also be a good source of exercise and activity. They can help people improve their balance and aerial moves. But they can also be deadly. Be sure that you are practicing safety while having a good time. Happy bouncing!
Have you ever been to the beach? Did you see a man with a headset pointing a long pole at the ground? If so you might have seen a person using a metal detector. People use these devices to find metal.
Metal detectors make magnetic waves. These waves go through the ground. The waves change when they hit metal. Then the device beeps. This lets the person with the device know that metal is close.
The first metal detectors were meant to help miners. They were big. They cost a lot of money. They used a lot of power. And worst of all, they didn't work well. People kept trying to make them better.
Metal detectors got smaller. Now they are light and cheap. They also work better. That is why people bring them to the beach. They can look for rings in the water. They can look for phones in the sand. Metal detectors help them find these things. They usually just find junk though.
Metal detectors also protect people. They help to keep guns out of some places. They are in airports. They are in courthouses. Some schools use them. They help guards look for weapons. Guards use special wands to find metal on a person.
These devices save lives in other ways too. During wars, people plant bombs in the ground. When the war ends, they don't clean up their messes. This is unsafe for the people who live in those places. Others use metal detectors to find bombs. They remove them and help the people.
These devices also make clothes safer. It sounds funny, but it's true. Most clothes are made in big factories. There are lots of needles in these places. Needles break from time to time. They get stuck in the clothes. They would poke people trying them on. They don't though. That's because our clothes are scanned for metal. Isn't that nice? Let's hear it for metal detectors. They make the world a safer place.
Kidozine
All of Kevin's friends were interested in what Kevin's mom did for a living. She worked for the famous music news magazine "Musozine." While on vacation, Kevin's friend Samantha asked his mom if she would be interested in helping their school put together their own magazine. Kevin's mom was more than happy to get involved. Samantha explained that the school has been trying to put together a variety magazine on student topics.
On the first day, Kevin's mom assigned each student a job in the magazine. Sarah and Anthony were to work on the Entertainment section. Crissy and Bob were to work on the World News section. Cheryl was assigned Local News. Rita and Angela were to work on the Sports section. All students were then asked to bring a draft of a story to next week's meeting.
The Kingly Lion
The animals of the field and forest had a Lion as their King. When anyone had a problem,
they took it to the Lion King, and he helped to solve it. When anyone had an argument, they took it to the Lion King, and he helped to settle it. The Lion King never made demands that were in his own interest. He wanted only what was best for each and every animal.
Day after day, the Lion King thought about nothing but the animals who were his subjects. Then he sat down and wrote out a Royal Order. He called all the animals to come before him. He stood on a hilltop and watched the animals come together from far and near. He waited for them to settle.
“Hear ye, hear ye!” the Lion began, in his deep and rumbling voice. “I have written out my orders for a new way of doing things that will be better for all. From this day forward, the Wolf and the Lamb shall agree to live in peace. The Panther and the Goat shall live in peace. The Tiger and the Deer, and the Dog and the Rabbit—all shall live together in perfect peace and harmony.
The Rabbit said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, in which the weak shall take their place without fear, by the side of the strong." And after the Rabbit said this, he ran for his life.
Terrence Learns How We See Color
Terrence was excited about his new watercolor set. He loved to draw and paint. He liked to draw and paint race cars, airplanes, and trucks. He liked to use all kinds of colors in his pictures. He was learning how to mix colors together to make new and interesting colors.
He showed one of his new pictures to his dad one day. His dad said, “These are such amazing colors! Do you know how our eyes see different colors?”
Terrence had never thought about that before, but he was interested. “No, he said. “We just see them, I guess.”
“Well,” said his dad. “It’s a little more complicated than that.”
“Tell me, then!” Terrence said. “Maybe it will help me learn how to mix cool new colors.”
“All right,” Terrence’s dad said. “But first you need to know about light. A light beam is made up of smaller beams of different colors. Our eyes see these many-colored beams as colorless. But when a light beams hit an object, our eyes see that object as a certain color. This is because the object absorbs all of the color beams except one. The color that isn’t absorbed is the color we see.”
Terrence thought about all this for a bit. He thought he understood what his dad was saying. “What else can you tell me about color?” he asked.
“I think you’re really going to like hearing about how the color wheel works,” his dad said. “But right now, it’s time for dinner.”
Henry Hudson
Henry Hudson explored and navigated the world. He started as a cabin boy and eventually worked his way to a ship’s captain. His voyages were that of legend and lead to many great navigational finds.
Hudson first set sail in 1607 in the attempt to find the Northwest Passage to the Far East. Three subsequent voyages followed.
The first two voyages were made on the shop "Hopewell." After a third unsuccessful voyage, Hudson could no longer find anyone in England interested in sponsoring his quest of finding a shortcut to the Orient.
In 1608, Hudson dined with a Dutchman named Emmanuel van Meteran, an English representative to the Dutch East India Company. The company was looking for a shorter route to trade with the Orient. Ultimately, the Dutch hired Hudson.
With the assistance of a trusty Dutch sailing vessel, Hudson continued on his voyage and eventually discovered a river that had been called an assortment of names, including Muhheakunnuk, Grande River, Rio de Sant Antonio, and River of Mountains. This river was finally named after Hudson himself.
In 1610 Hudson captained, the Discovery, in the name of England. Hudson was in search of the Northwest Passage through the continent. He spent most of his time mapping Labrador, a distinct Northeastern region of Canada. In November of that year the ship became trapped in ice and the crew moved ashore to wait out the ice.
In spring the crew retook the ship and Hudson planned on continuing to map what today is named Hudson Bay. The ship crew wanted to return home. Eventually this difference of opinion came to blows. Hudson, his son John, and several crew members were outnumbered and forced off the ship. They were placed on a small boat and never heard from again.
Harbor Seals and Gray Seals
Seals are warm-blooded mammals that live near the sea. The animal we often think
of as a seal is actually the seal’s cousin, the sea lion. Sea lions can move around on land much more easily than seals. They can be taught to catch a ball on their nose, and do other tricks. Seals don’t move around very easily on land. When they do spend time on land, they usually are watching over their newborn “pups.” But they spend most of their lives in the water. Seals can dive as deep as 1,000 feet, and can stay under water for over an hour. They can even sleep under water.
The two types of seals most often found in the North Atlantic Ocean are the
Gray Seal and the Harbor Seal. Gray Seals are found mostly along the North Atlantic coasts of Europe. Harbor Seals are found on those same European coasts, and also along the east and west coasts of North America. These two types of seals are about the same size, and look very similar, but they have some very different characteristics and behaviors.
Harbor Seals have smaller faces than Gray Seals. They have a forehead, and a small triangular nose. Its face looks something like a kitten’s. Gray Seals have no forehead, and a large, wide nose. Harbor Seals’ faces look cute, and Gray Seals’ faces look rather dangerous. Strangely enough, this is how they behave.
Gray Seals are often very aggressive. If accidentally caught in fishing nets, they put up a fight. They have been known to attack porpoises and other large fish. But Harbor Seals feed mostly on small fish. They are very curious, and will often follow boats, to see what is going on.
Once a Harbor Seal saved a dog’s life. The dog slipped and fell into a river just where the water rushes into the ocean. The dog was swept out to sea. A man who was out walking his own two dogs saw it happen, but there was nothing he could do to help. As he watched, a Harbor Seal started swimming around the dog, pushing it toward the shore. By the time rescuers got to the dog, there were three Harbor Seals bobbing up and down in the water just off shore, keeping an eye on the dog. Scientists say that Harbor Seals are protective by nature, and, unlike Gray Seals, are rarely aggressive.
Firefighters
Fire is to blame for countless lives and billions of dollars each and every year. Firefighters help protect people and their property from injury and damage. Firefighters put their life on the line every time they respond to a call.
While on duty, firefighters must be ready to respond in a matter of minutes to just about any disaster that may occur. At every fire scene, a superior fire officer takes command and dictates the jobs of all the personnel at the scene. Some personnel man hose lines to hydrants. Others manually operate the pumps to send water to the hoses. Teams of firefighters also operate ladders used to reach distances high in the air.
Florida

The peninsula of Florida was discovered by Juan Ponce de Le'on in 1513. de Le'on was a Spanish explorer that was thrilled to make a discover of that magnitude just prior to his 40th birthday. It took 200 men and three ships; at his own expense, but he will forever be remembered by historians.
What is currently known today as Tampa Florida was the site of Hernando de Soto's landing in 1539 with ten ships and 600 men. Following his arrival in Tampa Hernando de Soto spent three years wandering around the southeast and discovered the Mississippi River, where he is buried.
Modern day Florida sits between the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean. Due to the geographical location of the state, life can be tricky at times. The state is plagued with a consistent threat of hurricanes. In fact Florida State University professors estimate that since the 20th century the state has seen nearly $500 billion in damage due to hurricanes.
The capital city of Florida is Tallahassee. The Miami metropolitan area is one of the largest in the Southern United States. Florida depends on almost entirely on its metropolitan areas to drive the economy. Approximately 96% of the state’s gross domestic product is generated by its 19 metropolitan areas.
Florida is an attractive area for tourism. Just over $60 billion is generated by tourism in the state each year. The other key industries that contribute to the local economy are agriculture and transportation. Around 7 million tourist visit Florida each year, it’s not surprising that transportation is a key ingredient in the economy. Florida is also one of the few States that does not impose a personal income tax.
The Hare and the Tortoise
The beasts of the forest had long argued about who was the fastest—the Hare or the Tortoise. So a race was arranged. “I welcome this contest,” the Tortoise said. The Hare was harder to convince. “This is ridiculous nonsense,” he said. But finally he agreed.
Race day arrived, and the Tortoise started down the path. “Run hard!” shouted the Tortoise’s fans. The Hare stood looking down the path. “Ridiculous nonsense,” he muttered, and then he dashed off down the path. “Run hard!” shouted the Hare’s fans. The Hare ran for a while and then stopped. He looked around, but the Tortoise was nowhere in sight. The Hare sat down and scratched himself. “Run hard!” shouted the Hare’s fans. “Let him rest!” shouted the others.
When the Hare saw the Tortoise coming, he got up and ran for a while more. Then he sat down and scratched himself. This went on until the Hare was almost to the finish line where all the animals of the forest were gathered. Suddenly, it struck him how foolish he looked running a race with a Tortoise who was nowhere in sight. He sat down again. Some say he slept. The Tortoise won, and all the animals cheered. “How did you do it?” someone asked. “Slow and steady wins the race,” the Tortoise replied. And that is the moral of this story. It also became a popular saying among all the animals, and especially among the snails.
Going On a Picnic
Savannah and Charlotte worked real hard all summer to prepare for the end of summer
picnic. Savannah grew tomatoes and green peppers in her garden. Charlotte lives on a farm and since the spring has been growing corn, lettuce, and grapes.
A week before the picnic both girls harvested and packed their produce. They decided that all of their hard work deserved a reward. They charged others for their produce. Savannah charged one dollar for one tomato or green pepper. Charlotte charged one dollar for a head of lettuce, fifty cents for an ear of corn, and five cents for a grape.
The day after Thanksgiving is the start of the holiday shopping season. Thanksgiving is always on a Thursday, so the day after is a Friday. This day has come to be known as Black Friday. It has been the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005.
Most stores offer great deals on Black Friday. They open their doors in the wee hours of the morning. They try to attract shoppers with big discounts. Some items like TVs are much cheaper than usual. Stores may even lose money on these items. They hope that shoppers will buy gifts for other people while they are in the store.
Black Friday is a great time to get good deals. The problem is that there are not enough low- priced items to go around. Each store may only have a few. These items are in high demand. People stand in long lines to get such great deals. They may line up hours before a store opens. They may be hoping to get a low price on a TV or laptop, but not everyone who wants one will get one. Some people leave disappointed.
The situation can be tense. Some Black Friday events have been violent. Large, eager crowds have trampled workers. Fights have broken out over toys or people cutting in line. People have shot one another over parking spots. But most Black Friday events are safe and fun. Still, if you plan on going, expect large crowds and a bit of shoving.
So where does the name "Black Friday" come from? It was first used in Philadelphia in the 1950s. The police called this day Black Friday because of the heavy traffic it drew. In the 1960s, stores tried to rename the day "Big Friday." It did not stick. The name "Black Friday" continued to spread across the country. It seems that it is here to stay.
Now people all over the country take part in the event known as Black Friday. It is even spreading to other parts of the world. Stores have held Black Friday events in the U.K., Australia, and Brazil since 2012. In Costa Rica Black Friday is known as "Viernes Negro." And in Mexico, stores offer an annual weekend of discounts. They call it "El Buen Fin," which means "the good weekend" in Spanish. I guess the language of savings is universal.
You know that you're doing something big when your company name becomes a verb. Ask Xerox. In 1959 they created the first plain paper copy machine. It was one of the most successful products ever. The company name Xerox grew into a verb that means "to copy," as in "Bob, can you Xerox this for me?" Around 50 years later, the same thing happened to Google. Their company name grew into a verb that means "to do an internet search." Now everyone and their grandma knows what it means to Google it.
Unlike Xerox, Google wasn't the first company to invent their product, not by a long shot. Lycos released their search engine in 1993. Yahoo! came out in 1994. AltaVista began serving results in 1995. Google did not come out until years later, in 1998. Though a few years difference may not seem like much, this is a major head start in the fast moving world of tech. So how did Google do it? How did they overtake their competitors who had such huge leads in time and money? Maybe one good idea made all the difference.
There are millions and millions of sites on the internet. How does a search engine know which ones are relevant to your search? This is a question that great minds have been working on for decades. To understand how Google changed the game, you need to know how search engines worked in 1998. Back then most websites looked at the words in your query. They counted how many times those words appeared on each page. Then they might return pages where the words in your query appeared the most. This system did not work well and people often had to click through pages and pages of results to find what they wanted.
Google was the first search engine that began considering links. Links are those blue underlined words that take you to other pages when you click on them. Larry Page, cofounder of Google, believed that meaningful data could be drawn from how those links connect. Page figured that websites with many links pointing at them were more important than those that had few. He was right. Google's search results were much better than their rivals. They would soon become the world's most used search engine.
It wasn't just the great search results that led to Google becoming so well liked. It also had to do with the way that they presented their product. Most of the other search engines were cluttered. Their home pages were filled with everything from news stories to stock quotes. But Google's homepage was, and still is, clean. There's nothing on it but the logo, the search box, and a few links. It almost appears empty. In fact, when they were first testing it, users would wait at the home page and not do anything. When asked why, they said that they were, "waiting for the rest of the page to load." People couldn't imagine such a clean and open page as being complete. But the fresh design grew on people once they got used to it.
These days Google has its hands in everything from self-driving cars to helping humans live longer. Though they have many other popular products, they will always be best known for their search engine. The Google search engine has changed our lives and our language. Not only is it a fantastic product, it is a standing example that one good idea (and a lot of hard work) can change the world.
Andy has a whole box of stuffed animals, but his favorite one is Teddy the teddy bear. Teddy was Andy’s very first toy. Teddy is soft and brown. He has little black eyes and a cute little smile.
One time, Andy spent the night at his grandmother’s house. He forgot to take Teddy with him. When it was time to go to bed, Andy looked in his backpack for Teddy, but Teddy wasn’t there. Andy missed Teddy very much. Andy liked to have Teddy on his pillow when he went to bed.
Andy’s told his grandmother about Teddy. She asked Andy if he would like to hear a story about a funny teddy bear. Andy liked the story very much. It made him laugh. And Teddy was waiting for Andy when he got home the next day.
Tim’s family likes to go camping. One time they camped out for a week. The camp grounds were nice. There were lots of trees, and a river.
Tim helped his mom and dad set up their tent. He was too little to do that by himself. When it started to get dark, Tim helped his dad build a campfire. Tim was too little to do that by himself. Tim helped his mom cook hamburgers on the camp stove. He was too little to do that by himself. Tim wished there was something he could do all by himself.
Later, they all had roasted marshmallows for desert, and Tim got to roast his own marshmallows all by himself. That was his favorite part of the day!
The Blanket Drive
Mr. Kent’s students were very concerned about a hurricane that had just happened in Mexico. It had gotten very windy. The wind blew trees over and damaged houses. After the wind, there were heavy rains. Houses and streets were flooded.
The class spoke about what it would be like in Mexico. They discussed how the houses, and all the things inside, would be ruined. Ava said, “People will need clothes.”
“They’ll need new blankets to keep warm,” Melanie added. “My sister has a ton of clothes. We should send those to Mexico,” said Brett, thinking of how upset his sister would be to come home to an empty closet.
“Brett, that’s brilliant!” said Ava.
“It is?” replied Brett, who didn’t think he had ever said anything brilliant.
“Yes, it is!” exclaimed Ava with excitement. “You, you sister, Melanie and I, and everyone else in the school can bring in our extra clothes and blankets to send to Mexico. We all have lots of stuff, and now they need some of it.”
“Let’s do it!” Melanie said. “My mom has a whole closet full of blankets. We don’t need that many.”
The classroom was buzzing with chatter as the students talked to Mr. Kent about how they could collect clothes and blankets. Some kids were going to make signs that said: “Blanket Drive”. Other kids were writing a newsletter. Everyone was going to ask their friends and relatives for old clothes and blankets. Brett was put in charge of stacking all the clothes and blankets in the gym.
Everyone was excited except Brett. “Am I going to have to miss recess for this?” groaned Brett. “Maybe this isn’t such a brilliant idea.”
All week long, students brought in clothes and blankets. News of the blanket drive spread, and people living all over the city brought in more clothes and blankets. Even Brett was impressed by how generous people were.
Everyone in town was talking about the Blanket Drive. The local television station sent a camera crew to the school. The reporter wanted to know whose idea this was.
They found Brett in the gym. Behind him thousands of blankets and pieces of clothing were stacked almost to the ceiling.
The interviewer asked Brett, “This was a brilliant idea. You must be very proud of yourself for thinking of it.”
Brett looked at the mountain of clothes behind him and then looked back at the camera. “No, it wasn’t a brilliant idea,” Brett said thoughtfully. “We had a lot of stuff and those people in Mexico really needed some of it. We’re just trying to help. It’s simple.”
Hide and Seek

“Come boys, what shall we do? Let’s play hide and seek,” suggested Fred.
“Oh yes! That will be fun for all of us. Who will shut his eyes? Fred, will you shut your eyes?” asked Roy.
“Yes, I‘ll shut my eyes while you all go and hide,” replied Fred. Then Fred stood by the tree and shut his eyes, and the other boys ran off to hide. Pretty soon Fred shouted, “Boys, are you all hidden? Well, here I go. One, two, three, here I come!”
Fred started to look for the hidden boys. He spotted Andrew hiding in a box. “Ha! I found you, Andrew. You are in that box!” shouted Fred.
Then Fred said to Roy, “I found you, Roy. You are under the sofa.”
Fred could not find Frank. Fred kept looking and then saw Frank behind the curtain. “Oh there he is! I found you, Frank. Come out from behind the curtain. I see your black shoes!” shouted Fred.
Now it was Andrew’s turn to stand by the door and shut his eyes while the other boys hid.
Mouse and Lion live in the African grasslands. Lion is very large, and Mouse is very small. When Lion roars, the ground shakes. When Mouse squeaks, not even the grass shakes.
One day, Mouse smelled smoke. Mouse ran to find Lion. “Squeak, squeak!” Mouse squeaked. “I smell smoke, Lion! I think there is a fire!”
Lion looked around. He smelled the smoke, too. He lowered his huge head, and told Mouse to climb onto his back. Lion raced to the top of the highest hill, with Mouse holding on for dear life.
Lion saw the fire on the edge of the grasslands. He raised his head and roared his mighty roar. All the animals knew that special roar. It meant danger! They gathered their young ones, and ran to safety near the river.
Will the Wolf
Will was fed up. All he wanted was to do things his way. Why did all the wolves have to do everything together anyway? They ate together, played together, slept together, and walked together. Everywhere. Everyday. It was exhausting.
Will was growing up. He could do things himself now, and he had some pretty good ideas, too! But his mom wouldn’t let him try his ideas by himself. Will didn’t get it.
One day, the pack was walking through the woods. Will had an idea that there was food down a path, but the pack didn’t want to go that way.
Finally, Will said, “Why do we need a pack anyway? I’m going to go down that path and I’ll have plenty to eat! I don’t need you guys!”
The pack did not approve. They said, “Will, you can try going off on your own, but we need to work together in our pack. Packs help us survive.”
Will didn’t believe them. He ran off on his own. He ran for miles. He started to get tired, and it was getting dark. Usually, the pack would all find a spot together to sleep, but Will had no pack now. He decided to find a cave. When he settled down to sleep, Will though, “Sleeping would be much easier with
my pack all around me. If something comes, I’d have them to protect me.”
He barely slept that night. In the morning, he decided to go back. Will hoped he could find his pack again. He ran back to where they’d last been together.
As he was running, he smelled a deer. “Hmmmm...” Will thought. “The pack would be impressed if I brought a deer for us all.” So he decided to hunt on his own.
Quietly, he crept through the woods. He tracked the deer into a clearing. Will looked around. Where was the deer? Suddenly, something charged out of the trees at him! It was the deer, and those antlers were sharp!!! If his pack were here, they would help him, but Will was alone. He ran from the deer as fast as he could! After a while, the deer stopped chasing him.
Will rested. He started thinking how much easier this trip would have been with his pack by his side. He would have been able to sleep soundly. He would have been warmer with them all around him. He would have been able to take down the deer with his pack by his side. Now, Will was just hungry and lonely. He realized his pack had been right, packs do help them survive. Will knew that now, and was determined to find his pack and work hard to help them as much as they help him.
The Life Cycle
When you plant a seed, does it stay a seed forever? No! Plants and animals grow and change throughout their lives.
Many plants begin as seeds. As the seed gets what it needs (water, sunlight, and nutrients from the soil), it begins to grow. The seed turns into a little sprout. It keeps growing until it is a full-grown plant. Then the plant makes new seeds, so that new plants can grow even after the plant grows old and dies. Those seeds will then go through their growth process. Because seeds go through this process over and over again, it is called a life cycle.
Animals also have life cycles. A frog begins as an egg. When the egg hatches, it turns into a tadpole. The tadpoles grow legs and arms, and eventually grow into adult frogs. The adult frogs lay eggs, so that new frogs can live even after the frog grows old and dies.
A dog’s life cycle is a little different than a frog’s, because a dog does not start out as an egg. It is born from its mother’s belly. The puppy keeps growing and is eventually an adult dog. Then the adult dog might have puppies to continue the life cycle!
Insects like caterpillars go through life cycles, too. Caterpillars begin as eggs. When they hatch, they are larva. The caterpillar becomes a pupa, and inside of the pupa it turns into an adult. The adult is not a caterpillar; it is a butterfly! Then the butterfly lays eggs, so that new caterpillars and butterflies can live even after the butterfly grows old and dies.
Plants and animals don’t stay the same throughout their lives, they grow and change through their life cycle.
Force
Imagine you’re going bowling. You roll the ball down the lane, and it hits a bowling pin. The bowling pin stays up.
Is that what you would expect to happen? Probably not, because the bowling ball exerted force on the bowling pin, so it should have been knocked over! Force is the push or pull upon an object. Since the bowling ball moves and hits the bowling pin,
the force causes the bowling pin to move, too.
Is force at work in other sports? Yes, it is! Think about baseball. The ball could not fly out of the stadium by itself. The pitcher uses the force of his or her arm to make the ball go. The batter uses force to make the bat hit the ball, so the ball will move towards the outfield.
What about football? The same force the pitchers use in baseball works in football, too. The ball cannot move by itself, the quarterback has to use force to throw the ball to another player.
Here’s a different situation: what happens when two football players who have the same strength go to block each other? They have the same strength and so they might have the same force on the other player. What happens if two objects that have the same force try to push from opposite sides? Nothing! They players would stay in the same spot, trying to force the other, until the referee blows the whistle.
Force is not just at work in sports, either. You can experiment with force right now! Get a block. Use one hand to exert force on the block by pushing it along the surface of a table (not too hard, you don’t want to break anything!). What happens? The force makes the block slide. Now try putting one hand on each side of the block and push your hands together. Does the block move? Probably not, since you are probably exerting the same amount of force on each side of the block. If there is more force on one side of an object, it will move. If there is the same amount of force on all sides of the object, it will stay still. Have fun experimenting with force!
It's hard to imagine what things were like before there was money, but such a time did exist. During these times people exchanged goods using the barter system. The word barter means to trade. People using the barter system traded things instead of buying and selling them. So if you were a rice farmer, you would trade your rice with many people to get all the things that you wanted or needed. Unfortunately, the people from whom you needed things might not want your rice. Isn't it nice to just go to the store and buy candy instead of having to trade rice for it?
Brrrrring! Danny was in the shower when he heard the phone ringing. “Oh no!” He shouted to himself as he got out of the shower without turning off the water. He grabbed a towel and threw it around himself without properly drying. Water streamed behind him as he darted toward the kitchen. Brrrring! The phone continued to ring as Danny slipped on the kitchen tiles and landed on his hip. “Ow! My hip!” Danny struggled to get to his feet and grabbed the phone off of the counter just as it stopped ringing.
It was a cold winter day, a particularly cold winter day. As Devon waited at the bus stop, the cold air cut through his parka. He crossed his arms in a futile attempt to gather warmth. The traffic passed by indifferently. Devon watched the motorists. They seemed so content in their little metal cages. So warm. He wished that he were in a car. A dog in the apartment complex across the street barked incessantly.
What do you get when you cross a robot and an astronaut? A Robonaut! Robonauts are robot helpers designed to work side-by-side with astronauts. Work on the first Robonaut began in 1997, and by 2002 Robonaut B was revealed to the public. Robonaut B featured interchangeable lower bodies, like four-wheel mode or hydraulic legs. Yet scientists and engineers continued to improve Robonaut. In February of 2010, Robonaut 2 was released to the public. Robonaut 2 moved four times faster than the first Robonaut. An advanced version of Robonaut 2 was finally tested in outer space in 2011. Robonaut 2 functioned exactly as designed.

The cafeteria is large but it is crowded. Students sit at every table and there are but a few empty seats. You don't have very many choices, yet the choices you have are important. As a new student at this school, you are being watched by many of the others. Whom you associate with early will affect how the other students will perceive you. The wrong choice could make your life much harder for the next few years. So, what do you do? Here you stand, where do you sit?
Hare Heralds the Earthquake
There was once a hare who was always worrying. “Oh dear,” he muttered all day long, “oh deary, deary me.”
His greatest worry was that there might be an earthquake. “For if there was,” he said to himself, “whatever would become of me?”
He was feeling particularly anxious about this one morning, when suddenly an enormous fruit fell down from a nearby tree—CRASH!—making the whole earth shake.
The hare leaped up.
“Earthquake!” he cried. And with that he raced across the fields to warn his cousins.
“Earthquake! Run for your lives!” All the hares left the fields and madly followed him.
They raced across the plains, through forests and rivers and into the hills
warning more cousins as they went.
“Earthquake! Run for your lives!” All the hares left the rivers and plains, the hills and forests and madly followed. By the time they reached the mountains, ten thousand hares pounded like thunder up the slopes. Soon they reached the highest peak. The first hare gazed back to see if the earthquake was coming any closer, but all he could see was a great swarm of speeding hares. Then he looked in front but all he could see was more mountains and valleys and, far in the distance, the shining blue sea.
As he stood there panting, a lion appeared.
“What’s happening?” he asked.
“Earthquake, earthquake!” babbled all the hares.
“An earthquake?” asked the lion. “Who has seen it? Who has heard it?” “Ask him, ask him!” cried all the hares, pointing to the first one.
The lion turned to the hare.
“Please Sir,” said the hare shyly, “I was sitting quietly at home when there was a terrible crash and the ground shook and I knew it must be a quake, Sir, so I ran as fast as I could to warn all the others to save their lives.”
The lion looked at the hare from his deep, wise eyes.
“My brother, would you be brave enough to show me where this dreadful disaster happened?”
The hare didn’t really feel brave enough at all, but he felt he could trust the lion.
So, rather timidly, he led the lion back down the mountains and the hills, across the rivers, plains, forests and fields, until at last they were back at his home.
“This is where I heard it, Sir.”
The lion gazed around—and very soon he spotted the enormous fruit which had fallen so noisily from its tree.
He picked it up in his mouth, climbed onto a rock and dropped it back to the ground.
CRASH!
The hare jumped. “Earthquake! Quickly—run away—it’s just happened again!”
But suddenly he realised that the lion was laughing. And then he saw the fruit rocking gently by his feet.
“Oh,” he whispered, “it wasn’t really an earthquake after all, was it?” “No,” said the lion, “it was not and you had no need to be afraid.” “What a silly hare I’ve been!”
The lion smiled kindly. “Never mind, little brother. All of us—even I— sometimes fear things we cannot understand.”
And with that he padded back to the ten thousand hares that were still waiting on top of the mountain, to tell them that it was now quite safe to go home.
In the 16th century, an age of great marine and terrestrial exploration, Ferdinand Magellan led the first expedition to sail around the world. As a young Portuguese noble, he served the king of Portugal, but he became involved in the quagmire of political intrigue at court and lost the king’s favor. After he was dismissed from service by the king of Portugal, he offered to serve the future Emperor Charles V of Spain.

A papal decree of 1493 had assigned all land in the New World west of 50 degrees W longitude to Spain and all the land east of that line to Portugal. Magellan offered to prove that the East Indies fell under Spanish authority. On September 20, 1519, Magellan set sail from Spain with five ships. More than a year later, one of these ships was exploring the topography of South America in search of a water route across the continent. This ship sank, but the remaining four ships searched along the southern peninsula of South America. Finally they found the passage they sought near 50 degrees S latitude. Magellan named this passage the Strait of All Saints, but today it is known as the Strait of Magellan.

One ship deserted while in this passage and returned to Spain, so fewer sailors were privileged to gaze at that first panorama of the Pacific Ocean. Those who remained crossed the meridian now known as the International Date Line in the early spring of 1521 after 98 days on the Pacific Ocean. During those long days at sea, many of Magellan’s men died of starvation and disease.

Later, Magellan became involved in an insular conflict in the Philippines and was killed in a tribal battle. Only one ship and 17 sailors under the command of the Basque navigator Elcano survived to complete the westward journey to Spain and thus prove once and for all that the world is round, with no precipice at the edge.
Long stalactites hung from the mouth of the cave. A young man and a girl were arguing. He said, "Come on, Kate. It'll be cool. I heard there's treasure down there. I'll keep you safe." The young girl responded, "Yeah, Doug, but you can't see in the dark, and that cave is dark. How are you going to keep me safe when you can't see?" Doug sighed. "Come on, Kate. We'll use the light on my phone." Kate cocked her head and looked at Doug with her hands on her hips.
The Upside-Down Mice
Once upon a time there lived an old man of 87 whose name was Labon. All his life he had been a quiet and peaceful person. He was very poor and very happy.
When Labon discovered that he had mice in his house, it did not bother him much at first. But the mice multiplied. They began to bother him. They kept on multiplying and finally there came a time when even he could stand it no longer.
“This is too much,” he said. “This really is going a bit too far.” He hobbled out of the house down the road to a shop where he bought some mousetraps, a piece of cheese and some glue. When he got home, he put the glue on the underneath of the mousetraps and stuck them to the ceiling. Then he baited them carefully with pieces of cheese and set them to go off. That night when the mice came out of their holes and saw the mousetraps on the ceiling, they thought it was a tremendous joke. They walked around on the floor, nudging each other and pointing up with their front paws and roaring with laughter. After all, it was pretty silly, mousetraps on the ceiling.
When Labon came down the next morning and saw that there were no mice caught in the traps, he smiled but said nothing. He took a chair and put glue on the bottom of its legs and stuck it upside-down to the ceiling, near the mousetraps. He did the same with the table, the television set and the lamp. He took everything that was on the floor and stuck it upside-down on the ceiling. He even put a little carpet up there.
The next night when the mice came out of their holes they were still joking and laughing about what they had seen the night before. But now, when they looked up at the ceiling, they stopped laughing very suddenly.
“Good gracious me!” cried one. “Look up there! There’s the floor!” “Heavens above!” shouted another. “We must be standing on the ceiling!” “I’m beginning to feel a little giddy,” said another.
“All the blood’s going to my head,” said another.
“This is terrible!” said a very senior mouse with long whiskers. “This is really terrible! We must do something about it at once!”
“I shall faint if I have to stand on my head any longer!” shouted a young mouse. “Me too!”
“I can’t stand it!”
“Save us! Do something somebody, quick!”
They were getting hysterical now. “I know what we’ll do,” said the very senior mouse. “We’ll all stand on our heads, then we’ll be the right way up.” Obediently, they all stood on their heads, and after a long time, one by one they fainted from a rush of blood to their brains. When Labon came down the next morning the floor was littered with mice. Quickly he gathered them up and popped them all in a basket. So the thing to remember is this: whenever the world seems to be terribly upside-down, make sure you keep your feet firmly on the ground.
An old man was throwing breadcrumbs at a group of pigeons. No matter where the breadcrumbs landed, a big grey pigeon with a white spot on his head seemed to get the largest portion. The old man threw a large crust morsel away from the big grey pigeon and toward a smaller white pigeon. As soon as the white pigeon got a bite of the bread crust, the big grey pigeon snatched it and began eating it. Then the old man tore up the remaining bread crusts and threw them all at once. The pigeons flocked around the feast.
Vince held the slice of pepperoni pizza in his palm as the cheese dripped through his fingers. He didn't know what to do. The cafeteria was afire with slices of pizza flying through the air. Splat! A greasy slice of sausage splattered on Vince's table. The sauce splashed up and hit his friend R.J. in the chest. "Ugh!" R.J. shouted as he fell into Vince's arms. "I'm hit, Vince!"
Automation is the use of machines to reduce the need for human labor. In other words automation is when jobs done by people become jobs done by robots. Automation can be a good thing. Clothing, cars, and other manufactured products are available at good prices and in large supply because of automation. But automation can also be a bad thing. Because of automation there are over 700,000 robots in America that do jobs once performed by humans. The way of automation may not be best for humanity, but it is the course we are taking.
Money is pretty old but nobody knows exactly how old it is. Perhaps the oldest evidence of people using money is in the Code of Ur-Nammu. The Code of Ur-Nammu is a system of laws written around 2050 BC. That's like 4,000 years ago! Many of Ur-Nammu's laws carry fines, such as one stating that if a man is proven innocent of sorcery, his accuser must pay 3 shekels. This ancient document shows me two things: Ur-Nammu didn't tolerate false witch-hunts, and money is very old.
If you want to win over your friends and family with a surefire treat, you’ll love this toffee recipe. First, you take two cups of sugar and two cups of butter. Add them to a medium saucepan on medium heat. Melt the butter and the sugar and mix together, stirring the whole time. Once the mixture begins to boil, you can stir less frequently. As the mixture cooks it will begin to change colors from a light manila to a darker brown. As the mixture transforms into a shade of amber and is about 160 degrees, it is done cooking. Pour the mixture on a cookie sheet and place it in the refrigerator. Let it cool for about an hour and you’ll have yourself some of the world’s freshest and most delicious toffee. Enjoy!
What Are Clouds?
A cloud is made of water drops or ice crystals floating in the sky. There are many kinds of clouds. Clouds are an important part of Earth’s weather.
How Do Clouds Form?
The sky can be full of water. But most of the time you can't see the water. The drops of water are too small to see. They have turned into a gas called water vapor. As the water vapor goes higher in the sky,
the air gets cooler. The cooler air causes the water droplets to start to stick to things like bits of dust, ice or sea salt.
What Are Some Types of Clouds?
Clouds get their names in two ways. One way is by where they are found in the sky. Some clouds are high up in the sky. Low clouds form closer to Earth's surface. In fact, low clouds can even touch the ground. These clouds are called fog. Middle clouds are found between low and high clouds.
Another way clouds are named is by their shape. Cirrus clouds are high clouds. They look like feathers. Cumulus clouds are middle clouds. These clouds look like giant cotton balls in the sky. Stratus clouds are low clouds. They cover the sky like bed sheets.
What Causes Rain?
Most of the water in clouds is in very small droplets. The droplets are so light they float in the air. Sometimes those droplets join with other droplets. Then they turn into larger drops. When that happens, gravity causes them to fall to Earth. We call the falling water drops “rain”. When the air is colder, the water may form snowflakes instead. Freezing rain, sleet or even hail can fall from clouds.
Why Does NASA Study Clouds?
Clouds are important for many reasons. Rain and snow are two of those reasons. At night, clouds reflect heat and keep the ground warmer. During the day, clouds make shade that can keep us cooler. Studying clouds helps NASA better understand Earth's weather. NASA uses satellites in space to study clouds.
NASA also studies clouds on other planets. Mars has clouds that are like the clouds on Earth. But other planets have clouds that aren't made of water. For example, Jupiter has clouds made of a gas called ammonia.
My New Scooter
It was amazing. I couldn’t keep my eyes off it. The way it shone in the light kept drawing my eye back to it. My dad noticed.
“Sophie, you have a scooter already, a really nice one!”
“I know, but look at this one! It’s so shiny and new,” I said. “It is great, but we have to get going. Come on,” said Dad.
We left the store, with me taking one last glance back at the new scooter. I knew my scooter was nice, and it still worked even though I’d gotten it for my birthday 3 years ago. I just couldn’t stop thinking of that new scooter!
A few weeks later, Dad and I were back in the store. The scooter wasn’t on display where it was before, but as we passed the toy section, I kept my eyes open for it. There it was, with a big sale sign on it! I couldn’t help myself, I ran right over to it. Dad looked at the price.
“I know you’ve been thinking about this scooter a lot, Sophie, and you haven’t asked for much from me or mom lately. You’ve been helpful around the house, too. The sale price is pretty good, though it’s still a lot of money. I can’t just buy this for you, but what if I pay for part of it, then lend you the money for the rest of the scooter, and you promise to pay me back?” Dad asked.
“Would you really?” I said excitedly. “I promise I will pay you back, I will!”
“Sure, let’s get it,” said Dad as he picked up the box. As we were walking toward the registers, Dad asked me if I knew what it meant to borrow money.
“Yes, it means that I have to give it back to you,” I answered.
Dad responded, “You’re right, but you can give it back to me a little at a time. Right now you get five dollars a week for your allowance. Instead of using it for a little treat, you could pay it back to me until you pay off your part of the scooter. It will take a couple of months for you to be done paying me back for it if you do that. Does that work for you?”
“Sure, Dad! Thank you so much, I can’t wait to use my new scooter! I will pay you back with my allowance until I return all the money I’m borrowing from you today. You’re the best!”
The Bee
Bees live in a house that is called a hive. There are three kinds of bees: workers, drones, and queens. Only one queen bee can live in each hive. If she is lost or dead, the other bees will stop their work.
Bees are very wise and busy little creatures. They all join together to build cells of wax for their honey. Each bee takes its proper place and does its own work. Some go out and gather honey from the flowers; others stay at home and work inside the hive.
The cells which they build are all of one shape and size, and no room is left between them. The cells are not round. They have six sides.
Did you ever look into a glass hive to see the bees while at work? It is pleasant to see how busy they always are.
But the drones do not work. Before winter comes, all the drones are driven from the hive so that they don’t eat the honey which they did not gather.
It is not safe for children to handle bees. Bees have a painful sting that they use in their defense.
The eye doctor said Julie needed glasses. Julie picked out a pair of cute pink glasses. But when the glasses were ready, Julie wasn’t so sure. When she went to school the next day, she kept her new glasses in her backpack. She went into her classroom, and saw her teacher, Mrs. Swan. Mrs. Swan was wearing new pink glasses! Now Julie wasn’t worried about wearing her new glasses. Now she thought her new glasses were wonderful!
Here is a Nest

“Look, Ned, here is a nest! It is made from hay, and the old hen is in it.” “Put your hand into the nest, Mary.”
“Oh no, the hen will not let me! The hen is protecting something.” “Mary, I will hold onto her.”
“Well, Ned, if you can hold her, I will put my hand into the nest,” said Mary as she moved her hand towards the nest. “Oh Ned, there are some little chicks under the hen!”
“Are there?” asked Ned.
“Take her out of the nest so we can see them.”
Ned lifted the hen out of the nest. The children could see the chicks. There were six of them.
“Oh, the dear little chicks! How pretty they are,” said Ned. “Should we help the hen to feed them, Mary?”
“Yes, I will run and get some food and give them some water,” shouted Mary as she ran towards her house.
Fishing for Memories
On a warm summer day, Joan was going fishing with her grandmother. They climbed into a small boat and rowed out onto the water. Joan studied the waves all around her, looking for a giant fish to catch.
“You have to be patient when you go fishing,” Joan’s grandmother cautioned. “Can you be patient, Joan?”
“I’m going to catch all the fish in this pond,” responded Joan confidently. “There won’t be a single one left, Grandma.”
Joan’s grandmother smiled, shook her head and handed Joan a fishing rod. Joan quickly cast her line into the water.
“There’s no bait on your line,” her grandmother said. “Even if there was, you’d still have to wait. Today is about enjoying our time together and relaxing on the water. You don’t have to catch everything in the pond.”
Joan scowled, reeled her fishing line back in and placed a piece of her turkey sandwich on the hook. Then, she cast her line back into the water. Joan heard her grandmother chuckle as she leaned over the side of their boat and stared into the pond. She tried to see how far down her sandwich had travelled and whether any fish were nibbling on it. However, the water was too murky, and Joan didn’t feel anything tugging on the end of her fishing line.
After a few minutes, a frustrated Joan sighed in disappointment and leaned back in her grandmother’s boat.
Her grandmother had been watching Joan. Now, she pointed to the sky and said. “Do you see the bird flying up there? That bird is an Osprey,” her grandmother said. “Ospreys catch fish, too.”
Joan watched as the Osprey flew in a big circle and then suddenly swooped down to pluck a fish from the water. Joan and her grandmother spoke about how
it would feel to fly like a bird.
Then they talked about the first time her grandmother flew in an airplane, a long time ago. She was about Joan’s age at that time and
was going to school, just like Joan was now. Joan and her grandma spoke about Joan’s school, and what Grandma’s school was like.
In some ways, their schools were different, but in some ways, they were the same. Boys were naughty then, too! Joan and her grandmother laughed at the stories they shared.
Joan was telling her grandma about something that had happened last week at her school assembly, when her grandmother interrupted her. “Joan, quick, grab your rod!”
Joan had caught a fish. A fish that was hungry for a turkey sandwich.
Later that night, Joan though about her day, but she didn’t think about the fish or the turkey sandwich.
She thought about the funny stories her Grandmother had told her.
Alien Money

Zander was hard at work growing food for himself and his neighbors. The food was floating, and as he walked by he looked at each plant, pointed his laser at it, and the laser gave the plant what it needed. That was the easy part. The hard part was how much walking he had to do!
He heard a knock at his door. It was his neighbor Jules. She was holding some cleaning products.
“Hi, Zander. I just finished making some cleaning products. Do you need any?” she asked.
“Hi, Jules. I do. Can I get some cleaning spray? I can give you 4 breakfast plants for a bottle.”
Jules said, “I have enough breakfast plants for this week. How about 4 lunch plants?”
“They need a couple more hours to grow before I can give them to you. Is that OK?” asked Zander.
“I think that’s OK. It’s not too far of a walk for you, right?”
“I will bring them by when they’re done growing, I promise,” Zander said. Jules knew she could trust Zander, so she left the cleaning spray with him and went home.
When Zander came by later with the plants, he started talking with Jules. “I wish there was an easier way to get and give our items. Trading isn’t always easy. Sometimes I don’t have enough plants ready to trade, or sometimes it’s hard to agree with someone how many plants I need to trade for their item.” Jules agreed. They went home thinking and wishing for a way to make their lives easier.
Carla loves to color. It is one of her favorite things to do. She would color all day long if she could. When it was almost time to start kindergarten, Carla got a brand new box of crayons. She took the new crayon box to her room. There were so many colors! She found one of her coloring books, and opened the new box of crayons for the first time.
Carla took out the red crayon. The tips of the new crayons were more pointed than her old ones. They made nice thin lines. Carla started to color. She colored and colored with the new red crayon. Soon Carla noticed that the tip of the new red crayon was starting to wear down.
Carla looked at the new crayons. She looked at her old crayons in their old yellow box. Then she put the red crayon back in the new box. She decided she would save her new crayons for school.
What's fiercer than a lion but smaller than a beagle? The honey badger, one of the toughest mammals in Africa and western Asia. Honey badgers stand less than a foot high. They are only a couple feet long. They weigh just over 20 pounds. Yet they have a reputation for toughness that is far greater than their size. Some honey badgers will chase away lions and take their kills. I guess that goes to show you that size isn't the only thing that matters in a fight.
So what makes the honey badger so tough? They have speed, stamina, and agility, but so do many animals. They aren't stronger than lions, so how do they stop them? The thing that sets the honey badger apart is their skin. Their skin is thick and tough. Arrows, spears, and bites from other animals can rarely pierce it. Small bullets can't even penetrate it. Not only is their skin thick and tough, it is also loose. This allows them to twist and turn to attack while another animal is gripping them. The only safe grip one can get on a honey badger is on the back of their necks.
Honey badgers have long, sharp claws. These claws are good for attacking and even better for digging. Honey badgers are some of nature's most skilled diggers. They can dig a nine-foot tunnel into hard ground in about 10 minutes. They love to catch a meal by digging up the burrows of frogs, rodents, and cobras. They also use their digging skills to create their homes. They live in small chambers in the ground and defend them fiercely. They will attack horses, cows, and even water buffalo if they are foolish enough to poke around a honey badger's den.
You don't get a reputation like the honey badger by running from danger. The honey badger is fearless and a tireless fighter. They will attack any creature that threatens them, man included. Because of the honey badger's reputation, most predators avoid them. Some animals use the honey badger's rep to their advantage. Adult cheetahs have spotted coats, but their kittens have silver manes and look like honey badgers. Some scientists believe that their coloring tricks predators into avoiding them. Wouldn't you walk the other way if you saw a honey badger?
You might be wondering: "If honey badgers are so tough, how did they get a name that makes them sound like a piece of candy?" The answer makes sense. Since honey badgers have such thick skin, bee stings rarely harm them. So honey badgers love to raid beehives. I can't blame them. Who doesn't like free honey? Honey badgers chase after honey aggressively. So much so that beekeepers in Africa have to use electric fencing to hold them back. There's nothing sweet about that.
Beekeepers aren't the only people who have grown to hate honey badgers. Honey badgers may be fun to read about, but they are nasty neighbors. They attack chickens, livestock, and some say children, though they usually leave people alone. But if a honey badger moves in your backyard, there's not a whole lot that you can do about it. I mean, are you going to go and tangle with an animal that eats the bones of its prey? An animal with teeth strong enough to crunch through turtle shells? An animal that never tires, gives up, or backs down? Yeah, I wouldn't either...
Did you know that some people don't do their reading assignments? It's shocking, but it's true. Some students don't even read short texts that they are assigned in class. There are many reasons for this. They may be distracted or bored. They may be unwilling to focus. They may be unconfident readers. Whatever the reason, it has to stop today. Here's why.
Reading stimulates your mind. It is like a workout for your brain. When people get old, their muscles begin to deteriorate. They get weaker and their strength leaves them. Exercise can prevent this loss. The same thing happens to people's brains when they get older. Brain power and speed decline with age. Reading strengthens your brain and prevents these declines.
You can benefit from reading in the near-term too. Reading provides knowledge. Knowledge is power. Therefore, reading can make you a more powerful person. You can learn to do new things by reading. Do you want to make video games? Do you want to design clothing? Reading can teach you all this and more. But you have to get good at reading, and the only way to get good at something is to practice.
Read everything that you can at school, regardless of whether you find it interesting. Reading expands your vocabulary. Even a "boring" text can teach you new words. Having a larger vocabulary will help you better express yourself. You will be able to speak, write, and think more intelligently. What's boring about that?
Do not just discount a text because it is unfamiliar to you. Each time you read, you are exposed to new ideas and perspectives. Reading can change the way that you understand the world. It can give you a broader perspective on things. It can make you worldlier. You can learn how people live in far away places. You can learn about cultures different from your own.
Reading is good for your state of mind. It has a calming effect. It can lower your stress levels and help you relax. You can escape from your troubles for a moment when you read, and it's a positive escape. The benefits of reading far outweigh those of acting like a doofus. So do yourself a favor: the next time you get a reading assignment, take as much as you can from it. Squeeze it for every drop of knowledge that it contains. Then move on to the next one.
Out to Lunch
All morning, all that Ted could think about was eating lunch. He got up late and did not get a chance to eat breakfast before the school bus arrived.
Ted was hoping to have a Ham sandwich. Ham is Ted's favorite lunchmeat. Ted also enjoys apples, but doesn't like the yellow or green ones.
At lunchtime Ted ran to the cafeteria. When he got in line he asked for Ham sandwich, but they only had Tuna and Turkey. Ted is allergic to Tuna, so he asked for the Turkey. He ate the sandwich so fast that he gave himself the hiccups.
Glass!
Glass has the unique distinction of being classified as an amorphous solid. This means that it lacks a key characteristic of your basic solid phase structure. It lacks a true crystal structure. There are only a few other amorphous solids including some gels and films.
The transparent nature of glass lends itself to being used for windows, eye glasses, and other endless applications that require the sense of sight. Some forms of glass are also used to conserve and manage energy.
Glass has been used to create decorative art since the 19th century. The Art Nouveau movement made great use of glass in the pieces that are attributed to that time period. Today glass making is taught in my advanced sculptor classes.
Want to learn more about glass? Come and visit the Corning Museum of Glass! Located in New York's beautiful Finger Lakes region, the museum houses the world's premier glass and glassmaking collection. The museum takes a close look at 35 centuries of glassmaking. Prehistoric tools to the advanced and sophisticated tools of today's glass artists are on display.
Also included in a trip to the Corning Museum of Glass is the Hall of Science and Industry. This hall is an honor to the wonders of glass technology from the tiny optical fibers that are changing communications to the first casting of glass for the Palomar Mount Telescope, one of the largest glass castings ever made. The collection consists of almost 45,000 glass objects and accessories.
The Hen’s Tale
All summer long, the Swallows sat in rows along the rafters of the barn, telling stories of the wonders of the South. As the days grew cooler, their excitement grew, for they knew it soon would be Winter. The farm animals liked to listen to the stories, and imagine the wonderful places the birds described. And suddenly one day the Swallows were all gone.
The animals all talked about the Swallows, and the wonders of the South. The Swallows had told of flying over a huge grey sea. They had told of islands, and ships, and the Southern land where they spent the Winter. “I think I shall go South myself, said Hen.
The next morning, Hen set out. She spread her wings and ran off down the road. She fluttered along for a while until she came to a little gate. That night she came back to the barnyard, out of breath and panting.
“I have been to the South!” she cried. And she told the farm animals that she had been to the land where potatoes grow, and corn, and carrots, and beans. She told them of a land where beautiful roses grow in all the colors of the rainbow.
“How interesting!” the animals said. “And what really beautiful descriptions!” The Winter wore on, and the months went by, until the Spring of the year appeared, and the Swallows came again.
“We have been to the South,” they said, “and the valleys beyond the great sea.” But the farm animals would not agree that there was a sea in the South.
“You should hear our Hen,” they said.
Penguins Large and Small
Penguins are flightless birds—in the air that is. In the water, they flap their wings and ‘fly’ along at speeds of up to 20 miles per hour. They can dive down more than 1000 feet. Penguins spend about half of their time in the water and the other half on land. They can stay underwater for up to 20 minutes at a time before leaping out of the water to get a gulp of air. Their coloring provides protection in the water. From below, their white bellies blend in with the sky above. From above, their black backs blend in with the dark ocean. Penguins can even drink sea water. They have a special gland that takes out the salt.
Penguins are well prepared for living in cold water and cold air. They have a thick layer of fat under their skin to keep them warm. They also have two layers of feathers. In the water, swimming helps to keep them warm. On land, they huddle together in huge groups to keep each other warm. Since it is warmest on the inside, the young penguins are given this spot. The others take turns on the cold outside rim of the huddle.
These lovable birds can often be seen diving off a cliff into the water, then jumping back out, climbing back up, and diving off again. It looks like a game, but it is also an easy way to spot and catch fish. Penguins also look like they are playing when they go sledding across the ice and snow on their bellies. Actually, it is a faster and easier to travel, instead of walking.
Many types of penguins can be found in Antarctica and other countries in the Southern Hemisphere. The largest type is the Emperor Penguin, which is about 4 feet tall and weighs about 90 pounds. The Emperor Penguin’s facial markings give it a dignified look. These penguins do not build nests. Instead, to locate family members, they use a complex set of calls. Babies, called chicks, also use these calls to beg for food. When a female lays her eggs, the male watches over it until it hatches. The males gather in large groups, with the eggs at their feet. They stay with the eggs for two months until they hatch, without eating a single meal. Once the eggs have hatched, the females come back and take care of the chicks.
The smallest type of penguin in the Antarctic region is the Adelie Penguin. It is about 2 1⁄2 feet tall, and weighs about 10 pounds. Its body is wide, making it look somewhat chubby. Female Adelie Penguins make nests for their eggs by digging a hole in the ice and lining it with rocks. Male Adelie Penguins give females rocks as gifts. The male and female take turns watching over the eggs until they hatch, and then taking care of the chicks.
All penguins are extremely social and very curious. They do not seem to be afraid of humans. Explorers who have traveled in Antarctica with dogsleds report that even though the harnessed dogs go wild at the sight of a penguin, the penguin or group of penguins will waddle right up to the dogs. Then the birds squawk and shake their heads, as if to say, “What do all you ridiculous things want?”
Your Plastic Nightmare!
America's 78 million credit cardholders carried an average balance of $7,564 last year. The cost in interest and fees amounted to more than $1,000 for the typical budget. If you just said, "Budget - what budget?," you know what I mean. Truth is, most of us go on spending sprees from time to time.
But, when power shopping creates the illusion of success, even as debts spiral out of control, it has become a weakness. Some obvious signs that spending is out of control include making minimum payments on your credit cards, late fees, bounced checks, lack of a budget and loss of sleep over money worries.
Dancers
Dating back to ancient times, humans have expressed emotions, stories, and sounds through
the movement of their bodies. They use a variety of dance movements that allow for
self-expression. Many dances string several movements together.
Dancers perform in a variety of productions, such as musicals, folk, ethnic, tap, and pop culture. They also perform in a variety of venues such as theaters, television, movies,
music videos, opera, and commercials. For the most part, dancers perform in groups. Top dancers do perform solos as well.
Water - Reading Comprehension
Pure water lacks taste and smell. All living things need water in order to survive. Forty to ninety percent of the weight of all organisms is water. The human body uses water to remove wastes and transport nutrients throughout the body.
Ancient philosophers thought of water as a true building block by which all other liquids are measured. Until the late eighteenth century when a British chemist by the name of Cavendish made water by using a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen. We now know that water is 2 parts hydrogen, the most abundant element in our universe, and 1 part oxygen, the element that we breathe in order to survive.
Little Red Riding Hood
There was once a sweet little girl who lived with her father and mother in a pretty little cottage at the edge of the village. At the further end of the wood was another
pretty cottage and in it lived her grandmother.
Everybody loved this little girl; her grandmother perhaps loved her most of all and gave her a great many pretty things. Once she gave her a red cloak with a hood which she always wore, so people called her Little Red Riding Hood.
One morning Little Red Riding Hood’s mother said, “Put on your things and go to see your grandmother. She has been ill; take along this basket for her. I have put in it eggs, butter and cake, and some fruit.”
It was a bright and sunny morning. Red Riding Hood was so happy that, at first, she wanted to dance through the wood. All around her grew pretty wild flowers which she loved so well, and she stopped to pick a bunch for her grandmother.
Little Red Riding Hood wandered from her path and was stooping to pick a flower when from behind her a gruff voice said, “Good morning, Little Red Riding Hood.” Little Red Riding Hood turned around and saw a great big wolf, but Little Red Riding Hood did not know what a wicked beast the wolf was, so she was not afraid.
“What have you in that basket, Little Red Riding Hood?” “Eggs and butter and cake, Mr. Wolf.”
“Where are you going with them, Little Red Riding Hood?”
“I am going to my grandmother who is ill, Mr. Wolf.”
“Where does your grandmother live, Little Red Riding Hood?”
“Along that path, past the wild rose bushes, then through the gate at the end of the wood, Mr. Wolf.”
Then Mr. Wolf again said, “Good morning,” and set off, and Little Red Riding Hood again went in search of wild flowers.
At last he reached the porch covered with flowers and knocked at the door of the cottage.
“Who is there?” called the grandmother.
“Little Red Riding Hood,” said the wicked wolf.
“Press the latch, open the door, and walk in,” said the grandmother.
The wolf pressed the latch and walked in to where the grandmother lay in bed. He made one jump at her, but she jumped out of bed and into a closet. Then the wolf put on the cap which she had
dropped and crept under the bedclothes.
In a short while Little Red Riding Hood knocked at the door and walked in, saying, “Good morning, Grandmother. I have brought you eggs, butter and cake, and here is a bunch of flowers I gathered in the wood.” As she came nearer the bed she said, “What big ears you have, Grandmother.”
“All the better to hear you with, my dear.” “What big eyes you have, Grandmother.”
“All the better to see you with, my dear.”
“But, Grandmother, what a big nose you have.” “All the better to smell with, my dear.”
“But, Grandmother, what a big mouth you have.”
“All the better to eat you up with, my dear,” he said as he sprang at Little Red Riding Hood.
Just at that moment Little Red Riding Hood’s father was passing the cottage and heard her scream. He rushed in and, with his axe, chopped off Mr. Wolf’s head.
Everybody was happy that Little Red Riding Hood had escaped the wolf. Then Little Red Riding Hood’s father carried her home, and they lived happily ever after.
Terrence Learns How We See Color
Terrence was excited about his new watercolor set. He loved to draw and paint. He liked to draw and paint race cars, airplanes, and trucks. He liked to use all kinds of colors in his pictures. He was learning how to mix colors together to make new and interesting colors.
He showed one of his new pictures to his dad one day. His dad said, “These are such amazing colors! Do you know how our eyes see different colors?”
Terrence had never thought about that before, but he was interested. “No, he said. “We just see them, I guess.”
“Well,” said his dad. “It’s a little more complicated than that.”
“Tell me, then!” Terrence said. “Maybe it will help me learn how to mix cool new colors.”
“All right,” Terrence’s dad said. “But first you need to know about light. A light beam is made up of smaller beams of different colors. Our eyes see these many-colored beams as colorless. But when the light beams hit an object, our eyes see that object as a certain color. This is because the object absorbs all of the color beams except one. The color that isn’t absorbed is the color we see.”
Terrence thought about all this for a bit. He thought he understood what his dad was saying. “What else can you tell me about color?” he asked.
“I think you’re really going to like hearing about how the color wheel works,” his dad said. “But right now, it’s time for dinner.”
The Foods We Eat

The food we eat not only tastes good, but helps fuel us through our day. All foods contain three main nutrients: carbohydrates, fat, and protein. The remaining parts of food and include fiber, minerals, vitamins, and water.
Carbohydrates account for the majority of nutrients in the North American diet. They are made of a series of Sugar molecules. The sugar molecules act as an efficient form of energy for the body. Carbohydrates are commonly found in breads, grains, vegetables, and various sugary foods. It is recommended that carbohydrates account for 60% of your daily calories.
Fat is the densest energy source of the main nutrients. Fat provides just over twice the energy of carbohydrates per gram. Fat can be found in animal meat, butter, nuts, and oils. It is recommended that fats account for 20% of your daily calories.
There are two types of fats saturated and unsaturated. Unsaturated fats are an essential nutrient for cell growth and development. Unsaturated fats are mostly liquid at room temperature and are mostly found in plant products. Saturated fats have been linked to heart disease and other health problems. Saturated fats are mostly found in animal products and are solid at room temperature.

Proteins can be found in beef, eggs, fish, poultry, dairy products, and various plant products. Protein is required by the body's cells for growth and repair. Protein accounts for a substantial portion of the body's bones, muscle, and structural tissue. Protein also can be used by the body as an energy source. Protein contains as much energy as carbohydrates. Protein is made up of amino acids. Amino acids are used to maintain the bodies, bones, muscles, and various organs.
The Coliseum is an ancient stadium in the center of Rome. It is the largest of its kind. It is very old. They started building it in the year 70. It took ten years to build. It is still around today.
The Coliseum has been used in many ways. In ancient Rome, men fought each other in it. They fought against lions, tigers, and bears. Oh my! It was dreadful. But most of the people loved it. As many as 80,000 Romans would pack inside to watch. These gruesome events went on until 523.
The Coliseum has been damaged many times over the years. It was struck by lightning in the year 217. This started a fire. Much of the Coliseum is made of stone. But the fire damaged the upper levels. They were made of wood. This damage took many years to repair. It was not finished until the year 240.
The worst damage happened in 1349. A mighty earthquake shook Rome and the Coliseum. The south side of the building collapsed. Pieces of the arena were all over the ground. Many people took the fallen stones. Others took stones from the seating areas. They used them to repair houses and churches.
The Romans of those days were not connected to the Coliseum. It had last been used as a castle. Before that it was a graveyard. It has been hundreds of years since the games. The damage to the Coliseum was never repaired. It's a good thing the outer wall of it still stands strong.
Today the Coliseum is one of Rome's most popular attractions. People from all over the world come to Italy to see it. The Pope leads a big march around it every Good Friday. It is a symbol that many know. It has even appeared on the back of a coin. I guess that makes it a symbol that many people want too.
The United States has a lengthy history of going to war. It is a nation born from war. Pick any year since 1776, and the odds of America being involved in at least one war is over 90%. Every US President has faced war. Still, it may surprise you to hear that the US government is at war with a fish.
Asian carp were introduced to American waters during the 1970s. Southern fish farmers began importing them to help clean their ponds. Asian carp are phenomenal cleaners. Unfortunately, it didn't take too long for them to escape from these ponds, perhaps from flooding, and get into the Mississippi River. From there they have followed their natural tendency to swim upstream. This tendency may lead them into the Great Lakes and Canada, a nightmare scenario for fisherman.
Asian carp are large fish. One species, the silver carp, can grow to be 100 pounds. But despite their size, they feed from the bottom of the food chain. That means that they eat plankton and algae. A one hundred pound fish can eat an awful lot of sea scum, and some of it is toxic. The carp are resistant to the toxins, but we aren't. Some Asian carp are hazardous to eat because they have so many algal toxins in their systems. They also have lots of tiny bones in their meat, which makes them difficult to prepare. Asian carp is not a popular delicacy.
Introducing the Asian carp into waters that have not known them can be devastating. Beneath the surface of the water is a unique ecosystem. This system rests delicately on a balance that has evolved over millions of years. Then along come these big, hungry bottom feeders to mess up everything. They breed rapidly and densely populate the waters. Worse still, they compete with the native bottom feeders. The native bottom feeders are smaller. Larger, tastier fish like salmon eat them. The native bottom feeders are an important part of the ecosystem. When the Asian carp outperform them, the whole food chain suffers, all the way up to the people.
Not only do Asian carp mess up the food chain, they mess up people. Seriously. An Asian carp will bust you in head. Remember that silver carp can be 100 pounds. There is a reason why they are also known as "flying carp." This particular species of Asian carp has a tendency to jump when frightened. They can jump up to ten feet in the air, and the sound of boat motors frightens them. Watch out water sportists! In 2003 a woman jetskier collided with one and broke her nose and a vertebra. She almost drowned. In 2008 a teenager broke his jaw on one while tubing. Many others have been injured by these flying logs. Asian carp pose a serious threat to water skiers and boaters.
In 2007 the U.S. Department of the Interior declared all silver carp to be an injurious species. In 2010, the State of Michigan passed the $30 million CARPACT. In 2012 Congress approved the "Stop Invasive Species" act, legislation written solely to protect the Great Lakes from Asian carp. The government has been on the offensive against these large-bellied invaders.
But Asian carp are difficult to catch. Since they eat from the bottom, they do not go for lures or baits like most large fish. The best way to stop them is to keep them out. The Great Lakes are connected to the Mississippi River through the 28-mile Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal. For Chicagoans, it is the final point of resistance.
A series of multimillion-dollar electrical barriers have been built along the canal. The barriers are effective at keeping adult carp at bay, but some fear that baby carp may pass through. The United States Army Corps of Engineers has been deployed along with EPA. In 2009 they poisoned the entire canal with rotenone, a chemical that kills fish. The $3 million operation netted over 90 tons of dead fish, and a single carp.
Some think that Great Lakes must be cut off from the Mississippi River. The Michigan Attorney General sued to have the canal closed. The Ontario government and some Great Lake states have also taken legal action. But the courts have been persuaded by the value of the canal as a shipping conduit thus far. In the meantime, the barriers continue to hold, but how long can they? The carp have the Great Lakes under siege. Is this a war that we are destined to lose?
Grandpa’s Cooking

Ella loves her grandpa. He lives in Texas and comes to visit once a month. She wishes he came to visit every week because he tells great stories and makes her favorite dinner.
Ella asks her mom to make the barbeque chicken that Grandpa makes. Ella’s mom says, “I will try, but no one make it as well as Grandpa does.
Ella watches her mom prepare the sauce for the chicken. It looks tasty. When the chicken is finished cooking, Ella’s family sits down to eat. Her mom was right; no one make the barbeque chicken as well as Grandpa.
The next time her grandpa comes to visit, Ella tells him the story about her mom trying to make the chicken. Her grandpa says, “That is a great story.” Then he teaches Ella and her mom how to make the chicken.
Ella and her mom make the barbeque chicken once a week. It still does not taste quite as good as Grandpa’s. Ella loves her grandpa.
Billy and Ron are brothers. Billy is 5 years old. Ron is 7 years old. One day their mom took them to the zoo. Billy wore his red cap, and Ron wore his blue cap.
They had fun watching all the animals. Ron liked the monkeys the best. He wanted to stay and watch them some more, but Billy wanted to go see the elephants. Elephants were Billy’s favorite.
Their mom said it was time to go see the elephants, and Ron was sad. But their mom said they could come back and see the monkeys again before they left the zoo. Billy and Ron had a great day at the zoo.
Dave and Grant Love Kayaking

Dave and his friend Grant love to go kayaking in the summer. They each have their own kayak. Dave’s kayak is yellow, and Grant’s kayak is red. Whenever it is not raining, they kayak on the small lake in town.
They look for fish, turtles and muskrats when they are kayaking. They also like to see ducks and loons.
Sometimes they bring fishing poles with them so they can try to catch fish. Sometimes they just paddle around. They have the most fun when they race each other in their kayaks.
They always pack a lunch. They have a favorite spot on the lake to stop and eat their sandwiches. After lunch, they paddle around the lake some more. Then they stop again to have some cookies.
Even if they can’t spend a full day kayaking, they will go out for at least an hour each day. They really love kayaking.
Little by Little

When Charley awoke one morning, he looked from the window and saw the ground deeply covered with snow. On the side of the house nearest the kitchen, the snow was piled higher than Charley’s head.
“We need a path through this snow,” said his father. “I would make one if I had time, but I must be at the office early this morning. Do you think you could make the path, son?” he asked little Charley.
“Me? The snow is higher than my head! How could I ever make a path through that snow?”
“How? By doing it little by little. How about you try?” requested his father as he left for his office.
So Charley got the snow shovel and set to work. He threw up first one shovelful and then another; but it was slow work.
“I don’t think I can do it, mom,” he said. “A shovelful is so little, and there is such a large heap of snow.”
“Little by little, Charley,” repeated his mother. “That snow fell in tiny bits, flake by flake, but you see what a great pile it has made.”
“Yes, mom, I see,” said Charley. “If I throw it away little by little, it will soon be gone.”
So he worked on.
When his father came home to dinner, he was pleased to see the fine path. The next day he gave little Charley a fine blue sled. Painted on the sled in yellow letters was “Little by Little”.
Let’s Learn About the Desert
The desert is hot and dry, but many things live there. There are mice, chipmunks, squirrels, and many other animals. There are also many kinds of plants that grow only in the desert. It doesn’t rain very often in the desert. But when it does rain, many of these plants have colorful flowers.
The Sun and the Stars
Scientists know many things about the Sun. They know how old it is. The Sun is more than 41⁄2 billion years old. That would be too many candles to put on a birthday cake!
They also know the Sun’s size. The Sun may seem small, but that is because it is so far away. It is about 93 million miles (150 million kilometers) away from the Earth. The Sun is so large that the diameter of the Sun is 109 times the Earth’s diameter. The Sun also weighs as much as 333,000 Earths.
The Sun is made up of gases: 75% hydrogen and 25% helium. Hydrogen is the simplest and lightest of all of the known elements. When you combine hydrogen with oxygen, you get water. You probably know what helium is. It is the gas that can be put into balloons to make them stay in the air and float.
Scientists also know the temperature of the Sun. The surface of the Sun is about 10,000 degrees Fahrenheit (5,600 degrees Celsius). That might sound hot, but the Sun’s core is even hotter. The core is the central region where the temperature reaches about 27 million degrees Fahrenheit (15 million Celsius).
The Sun is the center of our Solar System. Besides the Sun, the Solar System is made up of the planets, moons, asteroid belt, comets, meteors, and other objects. The Earth and other planets revolve around the Sun.
The Sun is very important. Without it, there would be only darkness and our planet would be very cold and be without liquid water. Our planet would also be without people, animals, and plants because these things need sunlight and water to live.
The Sun also gives out dangerous ultraviolet light which causes sunburn and may cause cancer. That is why you need to be careful of the Sun and wear sunscreen and clothing to protect yourself from its rays.
Scientists have learned many things about the Sun. They study the Sun using special tools or instruments such as telescopes. One thing they do is to look at the amount of light from the Sun and the effect of the Sun’s light on the Earth’s climate.
The Sun is actually a star. It is the closest star to the Earth. Scientists also study other stars, huge balls of glowing gas in the sky. There are over 200 billion stars in the sky. Some are much larger than the Sun and others are smaller than the Earth. They all look tiny because they are so far away from the Earth. This distance is measured in light-years, not in miles or kilometers. (One light-year is equal to the distance that light travels in one year. This is about six trillion miles or ten trillion kilometers!)
Stars look like they are twinkling because when we see them, we are looking at them through thick layers of turbulent (moving) air in the Earth’s atmosphere. That is why the words are written in the song: Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star.
Stars have lifetimes of billions of years. They are held together by their own gravity. Over half of the stars in the sky are in groups of two. They orbit around the same center point and across from each other. There are also larger groups of stars called clusters. These clusters of stars make up galaxies. Our Solar System is located in the Milky Way Galaxy.
Ann and Frank
One day Ann and Frank went to the lake with their dog Rover. Rover can swim well, so Frank threw a stick into the water for him to fetch.
“Jump, Rover! Jump in and get the stick,” said Frank, and into the water Rover went with a big splash. Pretty soon he came out with the stick in his mouth.
Rover did not like the game as much as Frank because the water was a little cold.
They had fun for a while with Rover, and then set out for home because it was late in the day, and they could not stay long.
On the way home, Rover saw a rabbit and away he went after it as fast as he could go. Ann and Frank ran too but could not keep up with Rover and the rabbit.
When they got home, Rover was there, and Frank said, “Where is the rabbit, Rover?” Rover gave Frank a funny look and laid down on his mat.
“Oh I know,” said Frank. “The rabbit ran so fast you could not catch it.”
Helping Hally
Sam was sitting on the couch, watching television. His mom walked in the door with Hally, their dog. Hally walked right over to Sam and licked him hello.
“Hi Hally! How was your checkup?” Sam asked. Hally just looked at Sam. “We have to help Hally,” said Mom.
“Help her how?” asked Sam.
“Do you remember when we went to pick up Hally from her litter? We picked her because she looked like her mom. She is brown with spots, with long ears, and she was energetic, so we thought she’d be strong, like her mom. But how does she look now?” Mom asked.
“Well,” thought Sam, “She’s still brown with spots and long ears, but she’s not very energetic or strong anymore.”
“That’s what the vet said, too. We haven’t been letting her exercise as much, and we’ve been feeding her a lot. She would probably look just like her mom now if we had walked her more. We have to start walking her more often, so that she’ll stay healthy for a long time. Will you help?”
“Sure!” said Sam. He decided that he could play fetch with her every day in the yard, because then she could run and run and run until she was tired. The first day, they only played fetch for about 10 minutes before Hally was tired. But Sam kept playing with her every day. Soon, they could play for an entire half an hour! Hally looked stronger every day, just like her mom. Sam felt great about helping Hally get strong again.
The trapeze artist stood high on the platform. The whole crowd was silent. The trapeze artist rubbed his hands on his knees, grabbed the flying trapeze, and sprung into the air. Just as the trapeze had swung its full length, the trapeze artist released his grip and did a triple flip. He narrowly caught a second trapeze bar and swung from it by his legs. The crowd cheered. Another trapeze artist ascended the platform.
“I got this. Watch me now!” Steve said as hopped on the board. Several other skaters were scattered around the staircase, licking their wounds. The rail was too high and the gap was too wide, but not for Steve. He ollied effortlessly from the ground to the bench, catching his board on the edge of the bench, and then bounced off the bench on to the rail. The other skaters dropped their jaws. Steve looked like he was affected by gravity differently than the rest of them.
Currencies have changed and developed over the course of history, but one of the newest forms of payment doesn't even exist in the physical world. Bitcoin is an entirely digital currency. Users of Bitcoin send payments to one another over computer networks. These payments are nonrefundable. In other words, once the money is sent, you can't get it back. The value of a Bitcoin has risen rapidly since its introduction in 2009, when each Bitcoin was worth around 30 cents. At the time of this writing, it would cost you around 7400 U.S. Dollars to get one Bitcoin. That's quite a jump. On the downside, if the value of Bitcoin ever crashes, you won't be able to heat your home by burning it.
What's that humming sound? Could it be the hummingbird, the only bird capable of backward flight? Hummingbirds have many unique flight habits that distinguish them from other birds. Most birds flap their wings up and down to fly, but the hummingbird moves its wings forward and backward very rapidly in a figure eight pattern. This allows the hummingbird to hover in position. They can also fly upside down and move about very rapidly. Other birds have to push off with their feet to begin flying and work their ways up to their top speeds. The hummingbird can both start flying at maximum speed and stop flying instantaneously. Once you've seen a hummingbird in flight, it's unlikely that you'll mistake them for another bird.
"Shhh!" Gomez silenced his companion as the car pulled into the driveway. She was only ten but she knew the ropes and stopped talking immediately. The driver got out of the car. He was a tall man in his 40s with a thin mustache. He matched the description of the man that they were looking for. "That's the target," Gomez whispered. "I'll distract him. You put this under his car," Gomez told the girl, handing her a small magnetic tracking device.

In 1841 a young man addressed an anti-slavery meeting in Massachusetts. He talked about what it was like to be separated from one’s family as a child. He talked about being beaten and overworked. He talked about learning how to read and write in secret. He talked about what it was like to be a slave. Perhaps one of the reasons the listeners were so impressed with the speaker was because he had been a slave himself.

Frederick Douglass was born into slavery in 1818 in Maryland. His last name was Bailey, the name of his mother. First he was separated from his mother, then his grandmother. He eventually was sent to work for a family named Auld. Sophia Auld taught Frederick how to read and write. By the time her husband stopped her, Frederick had learned enough to progress on his own. Later, Frederick worked for a man named Covey, who often beat him. One night Frederick resisted the beating and the two men fought for two hours. This was a dangerous thing for a slave to do, but Covey finally gave up. Frederick was never beaten again.

In 1836, Frederick and other slaves tried to escape. Someone betrayed them and the attempt failed. Shortly after that, Frederick met Anna Murray, a free black woman, and the two fell in love. In 1838, Frederick planned another escape, and this time he successfully reached New York City. He and Anna were married shortly thereafter. Frederick decided to change his last name to symbolize his new freedom. He took the name Douglass from a character in a book a friend of his was reading at the time.

Frederick Douglass’s presence was a tremendous boost to the anti-slavery movement. Anyone who had doubts about the morality or violence of slavery had only to listen to the articulate former slave describe his former life. After President Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation in 1863, Douglass helped recruit black soldiers to fight for the Union in the Civil War. He died in 1895 after a long, full life.
Conflict had existed between Spain and England since the 1570s. England wanted a share of the wealth that Spain had been taking from the lands it had claimed in the Americas.

Elizabeth I, Queen of England, encouraged her staunch admiral of the navy, Sir Francis Drake, to raid Spanish ships and towns. Though these raids were on a small scale, Drake achieved dramatic success, adding gold and silver to England’s treasury and diminishing Spain’s supremacy.

Religious differences also caused conflict between the two countries. Whereas Spain was Roman Catholic, most of England had become Protestant. King Philip II of Spain wanted to claim the throne and make England a Catholic country again. To satisfy his ambition and also to retaliate against England’s theft of his gold and silver, King Philip began to build his fleet of warships, the Spanish Armada, in January 1586.

Philip intended his fleet to be indestructible. In addition to building new warships, he marshaled 130 sailing vessels of all types and recruited more than 19,000 robust soldiers and 8,000 sailors. Although some of his ships lacked guns and others lacked ammunition, Philip was convinced that his Armada could withstand any battle with England.

The martial Armada set sail from Lisbon, Portugal, on May 9, 1588, but bad weather forced it back to port. The voyage resumed on July 22 after the weather became more stable.

The Spanish fleet met the smaller, faster, and more maneuverable English ships in battle off the coast of Plymouth, England, first on July 31 and again on August 2. The two battles left Spain vulnerable, having lost several ships and with its ammunition depleted. On August 7, while the Armada lay at anchor on the French side of the Strait of Dover, England sent eight burning ships into the midst of the Spanish fleet to set it on fire. Blocked on one side, the Spanish ships could only drift away, their crews in panic and disorder. Before the Armada could regroup, the English attacked again on August 8.

Although the Spaniards made a valiant effort to fight back, the fleet suffered extensive damage. During the eight hours of battle, the Armada drifted perilously close to the rocky coastline. At the moment when it seemed that the Spanish ships would be driven onto the English shore, the wind shifted, and the Armada drifted out into the North Sea. The Spaniards recognized the superiority of the English fleet and returned home, defeated.
The victory of the small Greek democracy of Athens over the mighty Persian Empire in 490 B.C. is one of the most famous events in history. Darius, king of the Persian Empire, was furious because Athens had interceded for the other Greek city-states in revolt against Persian domination. In anger the king sent an enormous army to defeat Athens. He thought it would take drastic steps to pacify the rebellious part of the empire.

Persia was ruled by one man. In Athens, however, all citizens helped to rule. Ennobled by this participation, Athenians were prepared to die for their city-state. Perhaps this was the secret of the remarkable victory at Marathon, which freed them from Persian rule. On their way to Marathon, the Persians tried to fool some Greek city-states by claiming to have come in peace. The frightened citizens of Delos refused to believe this. Not wanting to abet the conquest of Greece, they fled from their city and did not return until the Persians had left. They were wise, for the Persians next conquered the city of Eritrea and captured its people.

Tiny Athens stood alone against Persia. The Athenian people went to their sanctuaries. There they prayed for deliverance. They asked their gods to expedite their victory. The Athenians refurbished their weapons and moved to the plain of Marathon, where their little band would meet the Persians. At the last moment, soldiers from Plataea reinforced the Athenian troops.

The Athenian army attacked, and Greek citizens fought bravely. The power of the mighty Persians was offset by the love that the Athenians had for their city. Athenians defeated the Persians in both archery and hand combat. Greek soldiers seized Persian ships and burned them, and the Persians fled in terror. Herodotus, a famous historian, reports that 6,400 Persians died, compared to only 192 Athenians.
First, be sure to keep the broken ends quiet. Keep the adjacent joints still. Should these joints bend, the muscles will act against the fractured bone and cause motion. Give the victim first aid for shock. Apply a sterile dressing to the fracture if it is compound. Do not try to push back a protruding bone. When you are splinting the fractured area, the end will slip back when the limb is straightened. An ice bag should be used with all fractures, sprains, and dislocations. A simple method of preventing motion of the fragments is to place the limb on pillows. Splints may also be used to keep the limb from moving. Breaks of the ribs or skull bone need no splints as they are held fast by other bones and tissue.
Sometime in December of 1891, Dr. James Naismith was teaching gym at the YMCA College in Springfield, Massachusetts. It was raining, and Dr. Naismith was trying to keep his students active. He wanted them playing a vigorous game that would keep them moving. He rejected a few ideas that were too rough. Then Naismith had his breakthrough. He wrote out the rules for a game with peach baskets fixed to ten-foot elevated tracks. Naismith's students played against one another, passing the ball around and shooting it into the peach baskets. Dribbling wasn't a part of the original game. Also it took a while to realize that the game would run more smoothly if the bottoms of the baskets were removed. But this game grew to be one of the most popular sports in America today. Can you guess which one?
The dog slobbered his huge tongue up Alice's face, leaving behind a sticky trail. "Yuck!" Alice shouted while wiping the slobber from off of her brow. Alice didn't like the dog that her parents got her. She had wanted a cute little dog that could sit in her lap and wear tiny sweaters, not a great big hound that knocked over her dolls with its tail and left drool puddles everywhere. "Go away!" Alice shouted at the great hulking beast. If the dog understood what she was saying, he didn't seem to show it.
You pretty much never want to be stuck in school during the summer months, but sometimes it happens. When it does you’ll find that staying cool becomes very important. Hopefully you go to a nice school with air conditioning, but even that breaks down sometimes. So, take a piece of paper and lay it on your desk. Turn it on its side so that the red margin line is at the top. Now fold the paper on the left side about a quarter of an inch. Flip the paper over and fold it the other direction another quarter of an inch. Flip back and fold again. If you are doing it correctly, you be giving the paper an accordion fold, so that it can grow and shrink. When you have folded the entire paper in this manner, you will have a fan that may help you stay cool. Just be careful, if the air is warmer than 98.6 degrees, you will find that the air will not cool you.
Counterfeiting is the act of making phony money that looks official. It is a very old crime but recent advances in printing have made it possible for even amateurs to produce decent counterfeits. Fortunately, there are some ways that you can detect counterfeits. The first and most telling inspection is to pay attention to how the money feels. It is difficult to reproduce the texture of real money. If the money feels suspect, look carefully at the microprinting on the bill. Many features along the portrait and border of a genuine bill contain writing that is too small to reproduce in most printers. If you are still suspicious, hold the bill up to the light and look for the strip that says the value of the bill. With a little diligence, you can keep yourself from becoming a victim of this rising trend.
To Make French Toast: First, take out a skillet to cook and turn the stove on low. Second, you will melt the butter in the pan and stir it with a spatula. Third, beat the eggs. Fourth, lay the bread, white or wheat, on both sides in the eggs. Fifth, sit the bread on top of butter for 30 seconds and then turn over. Now you have a slice of French toast, repeat.
Hats in Harvard
Whoosh! The cold wind roared through the trees and between buildings. Winter was on its way. Amaya was warm in her house, thinking about an article she’d read at school. The article had been about kids who helped out their communities, and she thought it would be really cool to help her own town, Harvard.
The only problem was that she wasn’t sure how to help. What did her town need that a kid could do? In the article, the kids had grown food for people who needed food, but it was winter. She couldn’t start a garden. Amaya was still deep in thought when her mom said it was time to go grocery shopping.
As they drove along the road, Amaya saw a family walking on the sidewalk, wearing only light jackets. How cold they must be, Amaya thought. That gave her an idea! She could help her town, she could collect winter coats, hats, and gloves for people in Harvard who needed them.
She shared her idea with her mom, who thought it was a great idea. But how would they spread the word so that they could get a lot of winter clothing? Amaya decided to talk to her teacher, because then she could share her idea with her classmates at least.
Mrs. Monroe was very supportive when Amaya talked about her idea. She even said she could help Amaya talk to the principal about it, so they could get the whole school involved! They decided to call the project “Hats in Harvard,” and they wrote up a letter explaining the idea to the families. Mrs. Monroe said they could even have the third graders take a field trip to parks around Harvard where families in need gathered to drop off the coats, hats, and gloves. Amaya was excited, and really hoped the principal, Mrs. Brown, would let the school participate!
Amaya and Mrs. Monroe met with the principal one day during lunch time. Mrs. Brown was thrilled with the idea, and said she would make sure copies of the letter went home with all the students! They collected the winter clothing for a few weeks, then were able to take their field trip to two parks in the area to leave the clothes where families who needed them could get them.
Three days after their field trip, Amaya and her mom were once again driving together. She saw the same family walking together that had given her the idea for Hats in Harvard. This time, though, the family looked nice and warm in some new coats, hats, and gloves. Amaya felt a warm glow in her heart, and was very glad she could help her community.
The Swift Runner
In the olden times, the animals were fond of sports. They often held contests with prizes for those that won.
One time a prize was offered for the animal who could prove himself the swiftest runner.
The reward was to be a pair of great antlers. Each animal was to carry the antlers on his head while running the race. The animal who won would receive the antlers.
A path through the woods was chosen for the race course. There were many bushes and brambles along the way.
All the animals gathered at the meeting place. They chose Black Bear to be judge of the race. It was decided that the rabbit and the deer alone should try for the prize.
“They are the best runners. None of the rest of us could hope to win,” said the other animals.
White Rabbit was given the first chance.
“I am willing to try for the prize,” White Rabbit said, “but I would like first to look over the ground where I am to run.”
So White Rabbit disappeared in the woods. He was gone so long that Red Fox was sent to look for him.
Red Fox found the rabbit hard at work cutting off twigs to clear a path to run on.
Red Fox went back and told the other animals what White Rabbit was doing.
Pretty soon White Rabbit came out of the woods.
He was all ready to put on the antlers and begin the race for the great prize.
“Oh, no,” said Judge Bear. “We cannot allow you to enter the great race. You are too fond of gnawing twigs. You may keep on gnawing twigs instead of trying for the prize.”
So little White Rabbit was not allowed to run for the prize.
Red Fox placed the horns upon the head of the deer and said, “It is your turn to try to win the race.”
Then the animals gave three loud cheers and told the deer to do his best.
The deer ran swiftly along the woodland path. He carried the antlers so skillfully that they were not once caught in the bushes.
When the deer returned to the meeting place, Judge Bear proclaimed him winner of the race.
As Black Bear gave the prize to the deer, he said, “Henceforth you shall wear the antlers on your head. You shall always be called the Swift Runner.”
Leon’s big brother plays on a baseball team. Leon goes to his brother’s games. Sometimes his brother plays first base, and sometimes he is the pitcher. Leon is proud of his brother. He thinks his brother is the best player on the team.
Jobs on a Farm
There are many jobs to be done on a farm. There are vegetables to be picked and cows to be milked. There are chickens to be fed, and eggs to be gathered. Life on a farm is very different from life in a city.
Moving On

Several years went by, and the father of the Boone family called them together. “Pack your things,” he told them. “We are leaving here. Boones never stay long in one place. Besides, our farm land is worn out. We can buy rich land cheap to the Southwest of here. We will settle there.”
Sixteen-year-old Daniel was happy. “I'm glad we are going,” he said. “I feel crowded here. There are too many houses and too many people.”
Father prepared for the journey. He took out the big wagon and hitched two horses to it. Mother packed clothes, quilts, dishes, pots, pans and kettles. She would fix food for the family along the way. Daniel tied a cow behind the wagon.
The family said goodbye to the neighbors and to their old home and started on their way. Mother, the girls, and the little children rode in the wagon. Father and the boys rode the horses. Sometimes all of them walked to give the horses a rest.
The Boones traveled across Pennsylvania. On and on they went toward the new country. At last the family came to the rolling, green Yadkin Valley in North Carolina. There were a few houses there already, but it was much wilder than in Pennsylvania.
Father said, “This is good farming land. We will stop here.”
Daniel looked all about him. There was level land close by. There were woods not far away. There were mountains in the West. Daniel knew the hunting would be good.
“I like this place,” he said. “There's plenty of room here.”
Father and the boys jumped off the horses. Mother and the girls climbed down from the wagon. They fed the horses and the cow. They made a campfire. Father and the boys cut down trees and started to build a log house. Soon the Boones had a new home in the new land.
The years went by. Daniel grew taller. His shoulders became wider. He was fair-haired, blue-eyed, lean and rugged. He hunted in the woods of the Yadkin Valley. The Boones' neighbors said that Daniel was the best shot for miles around. Daniel Boone had grown into a man.
Going to the Movies

My class is going to the movies on a field trip next week. We have to get permission slips signed before we go. We also need to ask our parents if they will drive to the movie theater. We are going to see a movie that tells the story from a book we read. We love it
when movies are made from books. It is fun to compare the movie to the book. I usually like the book better.
We get to the movie early so we can buy popcorn. Some of us buy candy and slushes too. We all enjoy watching the movie. When we return to school, we talk about things that were in the movie and the book. The movie and book are similar. We all agree that we like the book better though. Books let you picture the characters any way you want to picture them.
Snowman

“Roy, did you make that snowman?” “Yes. Doesn’t he look funny?”
“He is a funny snowman, Roy. What a big nose he has and big eyes too! Won’t he fall down?”
“No, I put some water on him. The water froze, and that holds the snow.”
“Aren’t you very cold, Roy?”
“Yes, come, let us have a good run, and that will make us warm.”
Springtime Tadpoles

Every spring Max and his brother Will go to the pond at the end of their street to look for tadpoles. They love to catch them so they can watch them turn into frogs.
This spring when Max and Will go to the pond to catch tadpoles, they see a painted turtle sitting on a log enjoying the sun. “Look at the cool turtle,” says Will.
“Should we try to catch it?” Max asks.
Will responds, “I like catching tadpoles better.” Max agrees with Will.
They fill their bucket with tadpoles and head home. When they get there, they empty the bucket into a big, wide tub. They cover the tub with a screen so animals can’t get to the tadpoles. They keep the tub in the shade so the water does not get too hot.
Max and Will go to the pond every day to bring back fresh water and leaves from the bottom of the pond for the tadpoles to eat. After six weeks, the tadpoles grow into frogs. Then Max and Will take them back to the pond so they can live happily ever after.
Garbage cans are not magical portals. Trash does not disappear when you toss it in a can. Yet, the average American throws away an estimated 1,600 pounds of waste each year. If there are no magic garbage fairies, where does all that trash go? There are four methods to managing waste: recycling, landfilling, composting, and incinerating. Each method has its strengths and weaknesses. Let's take a quick look at each.
Recycling is the process of turning waste into new materials. For example, used paper can be turned into paperboard, which can be used to make book covers. Recycling can reduce pollution, save materials, and lower energy use. Yet, some argue that recycling wastes energy. They believe that collecting, processing, and converting waste uses more energy than it saves. Still, most people agree that recycling is better for the planet than landfilling.
Landfilling is the oldest method of managing waste. In its simplest form, landfilling is when people bury garbage in a hole. Over time the practice of landfilling has advanced. Garbage is compacted before it is thrown into the hole. In this way more garbage can fit in each landfill. Large liners are placed in the bottom of landfills so that toxic garbage juice doesn't get into the ground water. Sadly, these liners don't always work. Landfills may pollute the local water supply. Not to mention that all of that garbage stinks. Nobody wants to live next to a landfill. This makes it hard to find new locations for landfills.
As landfill space increases, interest in composting grows. Compositing is when people pile up organic matter, such as food waste, and allow it to decompose. The product of this decomposition is compost. Compost can be added to the soil to make the soil richer and better for growing crops. While composting is easy to do onsite somewhere, like home or school, it's hard to do after the garbage gets all mixed up. This is because plastic and other inorganic materials must be removed from the compost pile or they will pollute the soil. There's a lot of plastic in garbage, which makes it hard to compost on a large scale.
One thing that is easier to do is burning garbage. There are two main ways to incinerate waste. The first is to create or harvest a fuel from the waste, such as methane gas, and burn the fuel. The second is to burn the waste directly. The heat from the incineration process can boil water, which can power steam generators. Unfortunately, burning garbage pollutes the air. Also, some critics worry that incinerators destroy valuable resources that could be recycled.
Usually, the community in which you live manages waste. Once you put your garbage in that can, what happens to it is beyond your control. But you can make choices while it is still in your possession. You can choose to recycle, you can choose to compost, or you can choose to let someone else deal with it. The choice is yours.
In this age of texts and tweets, it is easy to send messages. You just press a few buttons, and boom! Your message is sent. The person to whom you sent it will get it in just a few seconds. Distance is no longer an issue. But things weren't always so easy.
In 1848 gold was found in California. Thousands of people rushed there to get some. Many people liked living there and decided to stay. But there wasn't a whole lot between California and Missouri, where the nearest trains ran. The train line to California wasn't finished until 1869. It took a long time to ride a horse to Missouri.
Imagine that it is the year 1860. You have moved to California to open a shop. Most of your family stayed back East. Your shop is doing well and now you want to your family to join you. How do you get news to them? There's no phone, no train, and you can't leave your shop for too long. What do you do? Well, you could use the Pony Express.
In 1860 and 1861, the Pony Express was the fastest way to get news to and from the West. The trail that they rode was around 2000 miles long. It took most people weeks or months to ride that far. The Pony Express could make the trip in just ten days. Those speeds were unheard of at the time. So how did they do it? Well, they had a good system.
The Pony Express had 184 stations along the trail. The stations were around ten miles apart. This is about how far a horse could run at a gallop before tiring. The rider would switch to a new horse at each station. He would only take his mail pouch with him. Every 75-100 miles, the rider would get to a home station. At each home station, riders would rest. Before resting, he would give his mail pouch to a new rider. The mail never stopped moving, even while the horses and riders rested.
It was tough to ride for the Pony Express. Each rider had to weigh less than 125 pounds. Speed was the key. Most of the riders were teenage boys. They rode at a fast pace for up to 100 miles a day. If there were an emergency, one might have to ride 200 miles in a day. The ride could be rough and dangerous. Attacks by Native Americans were common. But in its time running, the Pony Express only lost one mail pouch.
The Pony Express filled an important role for a time, but it did not last. The Civil War started in April of 1861. This was bad news for the owners. The worst for them was yet to come. On October 24th, 1861, the first telegraph line to California was finished. This linked them to the rest of the country. People could send messages in an instant. Two days later the Pony Express closed. But the lore of the brave riders lives on even today.
Light: How We See Colors
Light is a form of energy that we can see. Some light
comes from the sun. Other light is man-made. Man-made light uses science to turn another kind of energy, such as electricity, into energy in the form of light.
Light moves in a wavy beam from a source to whatever object it meets. The beam is made up of smaller wavy beams—one for each color. When a light beam is moving through the air, with all the colors together, it appears to be clear.
When a light beam hits an object, such as tree leaves, or an apple, the color of the object affects the smaller color beams inside the entire light beam. The green leaves absorb all of the color beams except green. Only the green beam is reflected back, so our eyes see the leaves as green. The apple absorbs all of the color beams except red. Only the red beam is reflected back, so our eyes see the apple as red. This is called “reflection”.
Another kind of reflection happens when a light beam hits a smooth, shiny object. When this happens, the entire beam of light bounces back. None of the small color beams are absorbed. The light beam bounces back like a ball thrown against a wall. If we look at the shiny object that is reflecting light, we can see images of the things the reflected light hits as it bounces off the shiny surface, such as our own face!
Maintaining Your Automobile Reading Worksheet

The average North American driver travels 12,000 miles per year. In order to get the maximum life out of an automobile, you must provide it with proper maintenance. Proper maintenance can reduce air pollution, extend the value of the vehicle, save on fuel bills, prevent breakdowns, and lead to better performance.
You should change the oil in all of your vehicles every 3,000 miles. Whenever you change the oil you can also change the oil filter. Oil filters remove dirt and debris from oil. As the car runs the oil filter will become clogged with excess debris from the oil. In order for an engine to run it also requires air. This air must be filtered to stop dirt from damaging the engine. Every time you change the vehicle's oil you should inspect the car for any unexpected wear and tear.

Due the performance and sheer heat of combustion car engines it very hot. Antifreeze is used as a coolant in for your vehicle system. This coolant should be replaced every two years. By doing this you extend the life of your radiator. Other fluids that require maintenance at 60,000 miles and include brake fluid, transmission fluid, and power steering fluid.
The use of properly inflated and will maintain tires is critical. The tire holds the car to the road is your first line of safety. Tires usually have a life expectancy dictated by the manufacturer. It is recommended that you follow this life expectancy which usually averages 30,000 miles.
A vehicle should be driven properly by not exerting extra stress. Extra stress can lead to overheating. Overheating is the prime cause of premature life of belts, gaskets, hoses, and seals. If any of these parts become a problem it is a much better idea to replace the part than to repair it.
The Post Office
The colony of Massachusetts established the first post office within the United States in 1639. In 1789 Congress authorized the postal service under the U.S. Constitution. At the time, the nation had 75 local post offices and delivered mail over an area of 1875 mi.
Today, the postal service is an independent agency responsible for postal regulation and
delivery. The Postal Services main responsibilities are the collection and delivery of printed material and hard goods. The Postal Service also issues domestic and foreign money orders. In a single year, the Postal Service handles more than 160 billion pieces of mail.
Queen Hulda and the Flax
There was once a poor peasant named Hans. He lived with his wife and children in a valley at the foot of a snow-capped mountain.
Hans often drove his sheep to pasture up the mountain side. He always carried his crossbow with him to protect the sheep. He was a skillful marksman.
Once in a while, Hans would shoot a deer. The deer meat would serve as food for his family for many days.
One day Hans was watching his sheep while they grazed on the mountain side. Suddenly a deer appeared. Its spreading antlers glittered in the morning sunlight with wonderful brightness.
The deer bounded across the pasture to the rocks higher up the mountain. Hans followed quickly, hoping to approach near enough to shoot an arrow. From rock to rock, higher and higher, Hans followed the deer until at last they were at the summit of the mountain.
They sped over the snow until the deer disappeared. Hans followed more slowly along a dark and narrow tunnel. Suddenly he caught a glimpse of a bright light in
the distance. He walked on and soon reached a brightly lit cave. From the walls and ceiling of the cave hung many wonderful crystals and precious stones.
A tall woman dressed in pure white stood in the midst of the cave. A golden girdle was fastened about her waist. A crown set with jewels rested on her head. In her hand she held a bunch of blue flowers.
Lovely maidens in dainty robes with graceful wreaths of Alpine roses on their heads attended their queen.
Overcome with wonder, Hans knelt before the beautiful woman. As if in a dream, he heard her say very softly, “Choose for yourself what you will of my treasures—gold, or silver, or precious stones.”
“Most gracious queen,” replied Hans, “I ask only for the flowers in your hand.” The queen was pleased, and she gave the flowers to Hans at once.
“You have chosen well,” said she. “Also take these seeds and sow them in your fields.”
Suddenly a peal of thunder shook the grotto. When it had ceased, Hans found himself standing alone on the mountain.
When Hans reached home, he showed his wife the blue flowers and the seeds that had been given him by the queen. “Wonderful crystals and precious stones hang from the walls and ceiling of the cave, but the queen is more beautiful than all!” exclaimed Hans.
“Why did you not choose some of the diamonds and gold?” asked his wife, and she scolded Hans roundly because he had taken only flowers and seeds.
Hans made no reply, but he went to the fields and plowed the ground. Then he carefully sowed the seeds that the queen had given him.
The weeks passed by. Tiny green leaves began to show above the ground. The plants grew taller and taller, and then the blue flowers began to appear. The flowers were so beautiful that even the angry wife was pleased. She had never seen anything so beautiful.
Hans watched his fields day and night. One moonlight night, he saw the lovely queen from the cave walking about among the flowers with her maidens. They seemed to be guarding the blossoms.
At last the flowers had withered, and the seeds were ripe. Then the queen appeared at the cottage door.
The queen said, “I am Queen Hulda. I have come to teach you how to spin and weave.”
“The blue flowers that your husband chose are called flax,” added the queen. “I love it very much.”
Queen Hulda taught Hans and his wife how to spin and weave linen cloth from the fibers of the flax plants. Many people bought the linen and the flax seeds so that Hans and his wife became very rich.
New York
New York is the largest city in the United States. More than eight million people live in the Big Apple. New York City is also home of the United Nations. New York city is located in the state of New York. New York City is home to two hundred and fifty museums, four hundred art galleries, and the world famous Broadway for entertainment.
New York City is the business capital of the world and many national and international corporations have their headquarters in New York City. Wall Street, the world's leading center of finance and the home of the American Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.
As far as professional sports go, this city has two of everything. Two professional baseball, basketball, hockey, and football teams are located in the city.
It is All Clear Now
It all started at the beginning of fifth grade. At first, Carmen wasn’t really sure what was happening. In class, she had to squint to see the blackboard clearly. She had to do the same thing when she read street signs, or when she watched a movie. As the fuzziness got worse, she became more and more worried. It was important for her to see the notes and homework assignments the teacher put on the board.
It wasn’t long before Carmen found herself squinting all the time, but she didn’t want anyone to know that she was having a problem seeing. In class, she asked for a desk that was closer to the blackboard. One day, her teacher said, "Carmen, are you all right? I’ve noticed you squinting a lot. Are you having trouble seeing the board?"
Carmen shook her head. "I’m fine, Mrs. Cruz," she said, but she knew she couldn’t pretend much longer.
At home, she had to sit closer and closer to the television in order to see the picture. Her mother noticed her squinting as she watched her favorite shows, and she began to get suspicious.
"Tomorrow I’m calling the eye doctor to set up an appointment for you," she said firmly. Carmen protested, but her mother’s mind was made up.
Three days later, Carmen had new glasses and instructions from her doctor to wear them all the time. Carmen frowned in the car the whole way home.
"All of the kids at school will think I’m a nerd," she said. Her mother smiled and shook her head.
"You look just as beautiful with those glasses on as you do without them," she said. But Carmen didn’t believe her.
The next day, Carmen kept the glasses in her pocket as she walked into the schoolyard. She avoided her friends and stood alone, feeling miserable.
Suddenly, she heard her friend Theresa shout. Carmen ran over to the other girls. "What’s wrong?" she asked.
"My silver ring is gone!" Theresa cried. "My sister sent it to me from California. It’s very special and I can’t lose it!"

Carmen could tell that Theresa was very upset. They all looked for the ring in the grassy area of the playground.

Carmen realized that she could search better if she could see better. She took the glasses out of her pocket and put them on. The objects and people around her came into sharp focus. She caught her breath. Everything looked so different! So clear! She looked down at the ground and a glimmer of silver caught her eye. It was the ring.

"Here it is," she shouted. "I’ve found it!" She handed it to Theresa, and Theresa slipped the ring back on her finger.

"Thanks Carmen," she said. "I never thought we'd find it." She paused. "Hey, I didn’t know you wore glasses. They look great!"

Carmen had forgotten that she was wearing the new glasses. "Thanks," she replied shyly.
As they walked back toward the school building, two more girls from her class complimented her glasses. Carmen smiled. "Maybe wearing glasses won’t be so bad after all," she thought.
Autumn is traditionally harvest time when the farmers would cut their crops to prepare them for storage or to sell. When I was a kid we lived on a dairy farm and this was always a busy time of year as we cut harvested our crops and prepared the farm for winter.

Farmers use many pieces of large and small equipment to take care of their farm. Before winter they make sure everything is working like it should and they repair anything that needs it.

A lot of farmers plow their fields in the fall so it will give them a headstart for the spring. September is also the time that farmers plant winter wheat. It grows until it gets cold and then it goes dormant, which means it stops growing, until spring when it starts growing again.

Most farm animals love corn, but it has to picked at just the right time so the farmers can have a supply all winter long. Most corn today is picked with a picker-sheller or a combine, both machines shell the corn off the cob and then the farmer dumps it in a gas batch dryer which dries it to a certain hardness, otherwise it will get moldy in storage.Some farmers still just pick the whole ear with a regular corn picker and store it in a corn crib, if they are going to just pick it, they leave it in the field longer so it will dry. They test the moisture by shelling the corn off the cob and putting a handful into a moisture tester.
What is Sound?
The world around us is filled with sound. There are loud sounds
and soft sounds. There are pleasant sounds and unpleasant sounds. At this very moment, you are surrounded by sound. Where does sound come from? How does it get to your ears? Why are there different kinds of sound? The study of these questions about sound is called acoustics.
Imagine a cymbal hit with a drumstick. The cymbal shakes rapidly, and this vibration causes the tiny particles in the air around it to vibrate. These vibrating air particles, called molecules, bump into the air particles next to them and make them vibrate. This spreading vibration moves outward in every direction from the cymbal in waves.
When a small object is made to vibrate, the sound waves move up and down very quickly. This produces a high-pitched sound, like a high note in a song. When a large object is made to vibrate, the sound waves move up and down more slowly. This produces a low-pitched sound, like a low note in a song. Hitting a small cymbal makes a more high-pitched sound than hitting a large cymbal.
The volume of a sound depends upon the amount of energy, or force, applied to the object that is caused to vibrate. If the cymbal is hit very hard with the drumstick, the volume of the sound is louder than if it is hit lightly. The sound wave created by a hard hit carries the energy of the hit along with it. When a sound wave hits an object, the force that the sound wave carries causes movement in the object it hits. An extremely loud sound wave, such as the sound of thunder, can actually make the ground shake.
Harry and Annie
Harry and Annie lived a mile from town, but they went there to school every day. It was a pleasant walk down the lane and through the meadow by the pond. I hardly know whether they liked it better in summer or in winter. They used to pretend that they were travelers exploring a new country and would scatter leaves on the road so that they might find their way back again.
When the ice was thick and firm, they walked across the pond. But their mother did not like that they walked across the ice this unless someone was with them. “Don’t go across the pond today, children,” she said as she kissed them and bade them goodbye one morning; “it is beginning to thaw.”
“All right, mother,” said Harry, not very good-naturedly because he was very fond of running and sliding on the ice. When they came to the pond, the ice looked hard and safe. “There,” he said to his sister. “I knew it hadn’t thawed any. Mother is always afraid we will drown. Come along, we will have a good time sliding. The school bell will not ring for an hour at least.”
“But you promised mother,” said Annie.
“No, I didn’t. I only said ‘All right,’ and it is all right.”
“I didn’t say anything, so I can do as I like,” said Annie.
So they stepped on the ice, and started to go across the pond. They had not gone far before the ice gave way, and they fell into the water. A man who was at work near the shore heard the screams of the children and plunged into the water to save them. Harry managed to get to the shore without any help, but poor Annie nearly drowned before the man could reach her. Harry went home almost frozen and told his mother how disobedient he had been. He remembered the lesson learned that day as long as he lived.
Jacob and the Javelin
Jacob was an excellent athlete. Ever since he could remember, he excelled at any sport that he put his mind to. Jacob was an all star on both the cross country and track teams. As he progressed, he dreamed of competing in the field events.
For years Jacob was in awe of the Javelin throwers at the High School. The way that Javelin just screamed through the air as travelled to its destination fascinated young
Jacob. Jacob couldn’t wait to learn for Matt Stevenson. Matt was the Javelin State record holder last year and the Captain of the High School team.
Jacob had never even touch a Javelin before, but at the first field practice he got his chance. Coach Hilbert was assigning field events. When he asked for volunteers for the Javelin, just about everyone had their hand up. Jacob needed to make sure he got the coaches attention. He acted quickly and tapped the coach on the shoulder. Coach looked at Jacob. Jacob immediately did a back flip, while saying, “My name is Jacob and I am head over heels for the Javelin coach!” Coach Hilbert was stunned and belted out, “If you put half as much effort into the Javelin, Matt may have some competition this year! You got it Jacob!”
Jacob quickly made a name for himself. The older boys gave him the nickname “Flip”. Raymond, the champion hurdler, pulled Jacob aside and explained that getting a nickname is a true honor. Raymond’s nickname was “Ups”, because he jumps so high during the hurdle events.
Matt was the first to test out Flip’s Javelin skills. “Hey, Mr. Flip do you mind showing us a quick throw? “ “No problem at all!”, Jacob replied. Jacob grabbed the longest Javelin he could find and made his way down the runway. He launched the Javelin further than anyone, even Matt, had ever seen. The entire track erupted in cheers! That very moment everyone knew they were watching something special.
Once the place calmed down, Matt suddenly realized something! “Great throw Flip! One problem though... It didn’t count! You passed the foul line by a clear foot.” Matt quickly convinced Jacob to give it another try.
This time all that Jacob thought about was the foul line. When he released the Javelin, he quickly realized it was half of the distance of his first throw. He tried all day, but couldn’t come close to that first throw. At the end of practice Jacob came to his sense and realized that he had a hard road of practice in his future.
If you plan on going to Hawaii, don't bring any pets. Hawaiians are wary of letting in foreign animals. Your beloved Rex or Fi-fi could spend up to 120 days in quarantine. They have strict rules for importing animals. They carefully screen all incoming pets. Who could blame them? They've had problems with new animals in the past.
The black rat was introduced to Hawaii in the 1780s. These ugly suckers originated in Asia, but they migrated to Europe in the 1st century. Since then they've snuck on European ships and voyaged the world with them. These rats carry many diseases including the plague. They are also good at surviving and tend to displace native species. That means that after they infest an area, there will be fewer birds and more black rats. Most people prefer living around birds.
Since their arrival in Hawaii, black rats have been pests. They've feasted on sea turtle eggs. They've eaten tree saplings, preventing trees from being reforested. And they've been a leading cause in the extinction of more than 70 species of Hawaiian birds. They love to climb trees to eat bird eggs. They also compete with forest birds for food, such as snails, insects, and seeds.
Perhaps more troubling, black rats threaten humans. They spread germs and incubate disease. They are a vector for more than 40 deadly illnesses. Some think that rat-borne diseases have killed more people than war in the last 1,000 years. Rats also eat our food. They eat more than 20% of the world's farmed food. And that's why the mongoose was brought to Hawaii.
During the mid 1800s, the Hawaiian sugar industry was thriving. Americans were just realizing that they loved sugar. Hawaii was pretty much the only place in America where one could grow sugarcane. But those filthy vermin were tearing up the fields. Black rats were destroying entire crops. What's a plantation owner to do? The answer is simple. Import an animal known to kill rats. What could go wrong with that? In 1883 plantation owners imported 72 mongooses and began breeding them.
People revere the mongoose in its homeland of India. They are often kept tame in Indian households. Mongooses feed on snakes, rats, and lizards, creatures that most people dislike. They are also cute and furry. And they kill deadly cobras. What's not to love? Sadly, India is a much different place than Hawaii.
When the mongooses got to Hawaii, they did not wipe out the rats as plantation owners hoped. Instead, they joined them in ravaging the birds, lizards, and small plants that were native to Hawaii. It's not that the mongooses became friends with the rats. They still ate a bunch of them. But mongooses are not too different from most other animals: they go for the easy meal. In Hawaii they had a choice. Pursue the elusive black rat or munch on turtle eggs while tanning on the beach. Most took the easy route.
Now Hawaii has two unwanted guests defacing the natural beauty. The Hawaiians have learned their lesson. Talks of bringing in mongoose- eating gorillas have been tabled. So don't get uptight when they don't welcome your cat Mittens with open arms. They're trying to maintain a delicate ecosystem here.
Winter is cold in some places. Many plants do not grow during winter. Some plants die. Snow and ice may cover the ground. It can be hard for animals to find food during winter. Animals get through this time in many ways.
Birds and butterflies can fly. Many of them do not stick around for the winter. They leave. They go to a place with nice weather. Then they come home in the spring. We call this migration. Migrating is a good way to avoid the cold.
Another good way to avoid the cold is to sleep through it. Many animals hide during the winter. Their bodies slow down. They save their energy. They do not eat. They live off of their fat. They do this until food returns. We call this hibernation. Snakes, frogs, and bears hibernate.
Some animals store food in their homes. They do not sleep all winter, but they do much less. They live on what they saved in the summer and fall. This is what squirrels, beavers, and raccoons do. Skunks do this too.
Other animals tough it out. They do not leave. They do not hide. They must survive. Sometimes nature helps them out. Some animals grow thicker coats in the winter. Other animals change color. The arctic fox is brown in the summer. His coat turns white in the winter.
Winter may be pretty. It is nice to see snow on the trees. But it is dangerous too. People are also at risk. You can get frost bitten or worse. How do you beat the winter? Do you wear a thick coat? Do you stay inside? Or do you live somewhere warm?
Changes

Did you know that heating and cooling can change objects?
Some changes can be reversed, which means the object can go back to the way it was before it was heated up or cooled down.
Other changes cannot be reversed, which means the object cannot go back to how it was before it was heated up or cooled down.
Water can go through reversible changes when it is heated or cooled. When water is heated up, it will start to boil, and then turn into water vapor. If you collect the water vapor and cool it down, it will turn back into water. When water is cooled down a lot, it will turn into ice. If you heat the ice back up, it will turn into water again.
Have you ever watched an adult cook an egg? Eggs go through a change that cannot be reversed when they are heated. When the liquid egg white is heated, it turns into a solid. If you let the egg cool back down, though, the egg white will not turn back into a liquid.
Bunny and Crow live in the forest. Bunny has soft white fur and long floppy ears. She lives in a nice little house under a rock. She likes to hop through the bushes. She likes to visit her animal friends. But she always wondered what the world outside the forest was like.
Crow has shiny black feathers. His house is a nice nest at the top of a tree. He likes to fly high above the forest. He likes to fly over rivers and towns outside the forest.
One day, Bunny saw Crow sitting in a tree. “Hello Crow!” she called. “Can you tell me what the world is like outside the forest?” So Crow told Bunny all about the rivers and towns outside the forest. Bunny and Crow became good friends.
Millie Goes for a Ride
Millie got a pink scooter for her birthday. She rode it up the sidewalk in front of her house. It was hard to pedal, because the sidewalk was uphill all the way. At the top of the hill, Millie turned around and rode back down the sidewalk. Riding back down was easy. It was downhill all the way.
Ten Little Cookies
Ten little cookies, brown and crisp and fine— Grandma gave Baby one; then there were nine.
Nine little cookies on a china plate—
Betty took a small one; then there were eight.
Eight little cookies, nice and round and even— The butcher boy ate one; then there were seven.
Seven little cookies, much liked by chicks— The old hen ate one, then there were six.
Six little cookies, when grandma went to drive— Betty had another one; then there were five.
Five little cookies, placed too near the door— The little doggie ate one; then there were four.
Four little cookies, brown as brown could be— Grandma took one for herself, then there were three.
Three little cookies— when grandpa said,
“I too, Would like a very little one”; then there were two.
Two little cookies— fast did Betty run
To give one to her mamma; then there was one.
One little cookie— and now our story is done. Baby Jane ate the last; then there was none.
How to Make Ice Cream
Do you like ice cream? Maybe you always buy it at the store or from an ice cream shop, but did you know you can make your own ice cream at home?
First, gather your materials. You will need milk, sugar, and vanilla as the ingredients for the ice cream. You will also need some other materials to turn those ingredients into ice cream. The other materials are two zip-top plastic bags, ice, and salt. One of the zip-top plastic bags should be larger than the other. You might also want winter gloves or a towel to use later on!
In the smaller bag, combine 1 cup of milk, about 2 tablespoons of sugar, and 1⁄2 teaspoon of vanilla. Close the top up tightly! Use your hands to squish the bag to mix the ingredients, or shake the bag.
In the larger bag, combine between 2-4 cups of ice and about 1⁄3 cup of salt.
Put the smaller bag into the larger bag, making sure the small bag is still closed tightly. Close the larger bag. If you want to keep your hands warm, put on the
winter gloves or wrap the larger bag in a towel. Shake the bags for at least 5 minutes. Take a peek at the smaller bag to see if it looks like ice cream, or if it’s still liquid. If it looks like ice cream, then you can take the smaller bag out of
the larger one, pour the ice cream into a bowl, and enjoy your treat! If it still looks thin, shake the bag for a few more minutes before enjoying.
When you feel successful at making plain vanilla ice cream, experiment with adding different ingredients to make your own delicious flavors!
Fortune and the Poor Man
One day a ragged man was creeping along from house to house. He carried an old wallet in his hand and was asking at every door for a few cents to buy something to eat. As he was grumbling at his misfortune, he kept wondering why it was that folks who had so much money were never satisfied and were always wanting more.
“Here,” said he, “is the master of this house—I know him well. He is a good business man, and he made himself wondrously rich a long time ago. Had he been wise, he would have stopped then. He would have turned over his business to someone else, and then he could have spent the rest of his life in ease. What did he do instead? He built ships and sent them to sea to trade with foreign lands. He thought he would get mountains of gold.”
“However, there were great storms on the water; his ships were wrecked, and his riches were swallowed up by the waves. Now all his hopes lie at the bottom of the sea, and his great wealth has vanished.”
“There are many such cases. Men seem to never be satisfied unless they gain the whole world.”
“As for me, if I had only enough to eat and to buy clothing, I would not want anything more.”
Just at that moment, Fortune came down the street. She saw the poor man and stopped. She said to him:
“Listen! I have long wished to help you. Hold your wallet, and I will pour this gold into it, but only on this condition: all that falls into the wallet shall be pure gold, but every piece that falls upon the ground shall become dust. Do you understand?”
“Oh, yes, I understand,” said the poor man.
“Then be careful,” said Fortune. “Your wallet is old, so do not load it too heavily.”
The beggar was so glad that he could hardly wait. He quickly opened his wallet, and a stream of yellow dollars poured into it. The wallet grew heavy.
“Is that enough?” asked Fortune. “Not yet.”
“Isn't it cracking?”
“Never fear.”
The beggar's hands began to tremble. Ah, if the gold would only pour forever!
“You are the richest man in the world now!” “Just a little more, add just a handful or two.”
“There, it's full. The wallet will burst.”
“But it will hold just a little more!”
Another piece was added, and the wallet split. The treasure fell
upon the ground and turned to dust. The beggar had nothing now but his empty wallet, and
it was torn from top to bottom. He was as poor as before.
Kelvin was waiting in front of the corner store at 3:56. His muscles were tense and he was sweating a bit more than usual. The other kids gathered in front of the little storefront were much more relaxed, even playful. They joked back and forth lightly to each other but for Kelvin, time slowed. 3:57. “Don’t worry, Kelvin. He ain’t even gonna show up.” Kelvin hoped that he wouldn’t. A black four- door Camry with tinted windows pulled up and parked across the street. Kelvin gulped. 3:58. A group of teenagers piled out of the car. James was in the front. “Hi-ya, Kelvin. Glad you could make it,” James said. Kelvin felt smaller.
"Jack! Don't forget your coat," Mom shouted down the stairs. "Already wearing it, Mom! Love you!" I shouted back while stepping through the front door. The wind whipped across the street tossing a light spiral of snow through the air. My coat was already zipped, but I pulled it up as high as it would go and buttoned the top buttons. It was just that kind of day. A large snowplow came crashing down the street, sparks flying off of the steel plow as it scrapped the asphalt.
Being a clown isn't all fun and games. Rodeo clowns expose themselves to great danger every time they perform. When cowboys dismount or bulls buck them off, rodeo clowns jump in front of the bulls and motion wildly to get their attention. In this way rodeo clowns provide an alternate target, and in doing so protect the rider. Of course, this is a very dangerous thing to do. So you see, sometimes clowning around can be serious business.
One problem that the U.S. faced when rebelling against the British was currency. While under British control, colonists mainly used British paper money and foreign coins. But after forming a new nation, the Americans needed their own currency. They created Continental currency. Congress issued over 240 million Continental Dollars during the Revolution. Unfortunately, these dollars soon dropped in value. This gave rise to the popular expression, "not worth a Continental." By the end of 1778, Continentals were worth 1/5th of their face value. By 1780, they were worth 1/40th. In the 1790s, the U.S. bought back Continentals for 1% of their printed value. One reason for this decline was economic warfare. During the war the British hired artists to counterfeit Continental Dollars. Then they funneled large amounts of these counterfeit notes into the American economy. The value of the Continental Dollar crashed. When people complain about today's inflation rates, I tell them about Continentals.
We weren’t used to this much activity. We grew up in a place where there were no cars. There were no neighbors. For the last twelve years it was just me, my sister, and my dad. We lived in the hills alone, but now we were in the city. Having never seen a city before, my sister and I were awestruck. Trolleys whizzed, cars sputtered, bikes zigged, pedestrians chatted, and the roads were lined with buildings that stretched into the sky.
The following passage refers to questions 15 through 19.

Mount Vesuvius, a volcano located between the ancient Italian cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum, has received much attention because of its frequent and destructive eruptions. The most famous of these eruptions occurred in A.D. 79.

The volcano had been inactive for centuries. There was little warning of the coming eruption, although one account unearthed by archaeologists says that a hard rain and a strong wind had disturbed the celestial calm during the preceding night. Early the next morning, the volcano poured a huge river of molten rock down upon Herculaneum, completely burying the city and filling the harbor with coagulated lava.

Meanwhile, on the other side of the mountain, cinders, stone and ash rained down on Pompeii. Sparks from the burning ash ignited the combustible rooftops quickly. Large portions of the city were destroyed in the conflagration. Fire, however, was not the only cause of destruction. Poisonous sulfuric gases saturated the air. These heavy gases were not buoyant in the atmosphere and therefore sank toward the earth and suffocated people.

Over the years, excavations of Pompeii and Herculaneum have revealed a great deal about the behavior of the volcano. By analyzing data, much as a zoologist dissects an animal specimen, scientists have concluded that the eruption changed large portions of the area’s geography. For instance, it turned the Sarno River from its course and raised the level of the beach along the Bay of Naples. Meteorologists studying these events have also concluded that Vesuvius caused a huge tidal wave that affected the world’s climate.

In addition to making these investigations, archaeologists have been able to study the skeletons of victims by using distilled water to wash away the volcanic ash. By strengthening the brittle bones with acrylic paint, scientists have been able to examine the skeletons and draw conclusions about the diet and habits of the residents. Finally, the excavations at both Pompeii and Herculaneum have yielded many examples of classical art, such as jewelry made of bronze, which is an alloy of copper and tin. The eruption of Mount Vesuvius and its tragic consequences have provided everyone with a wealth of data about the effects that volcanoes can have on the surrounding area. Today, volcanologists can locate and predict eruptions, saving lives and preventing the destruction of other cities and cultures.
Many great inventions are initially greeted with ridicule and disbelief. The invention of the airplane was no exception. Although many people who heard about the first powered flight on December 17, 1903 were excited and impressed, others reacted with peals of laughter. The idea of flying an aircraft was repulsive to some people. Such people called Wilbur and Orville Wright, the inventors of the first flying machine, impulsive fools. Negative reactions, however, did not stop the Wrights. Impelled by their desire to succeed, they continued their experiments in aviation.

Orville and Wilbur Wright had always had a compelling interest in aeronautics and mechanics. As young boys they earned money by making and selling kites and mechanical toys. Later, they designed a newspaper-folding machine, built a printing press, and operated a bicycle-repair shop. In 1896, when they read about the death of Otto Lilienthal, the brothers’ interest in flight grew into a compulsion.

Lilienthal, a pioneer in hang-gliding, had controlled his gliders by shifting his body in the desired direction. This idea was repellent to the Wright brothers, however, and they searched for more efficient methods to control the balance of airborne vehicles. In 1900 and 1901, the Wrights tested numerous gliders and developed control techniques. The brothers’ inability to obtain enough lift power for the gliders almost led them to abandon their efforts.

After further study, the Wright brothers concluded that the published tables of air pressure on curved surfaces must be wrong. They set up a wind tunnel and began a series of experiments with model wings. Because of their efforts, the old tables were repealed in time and replaced by the first reliable figures for air pressure on curved surfaces. This work, in turn, made it possible for the brothers to design a machine that would fly. In 1903 the Wrights built their first airplane, which cost less than $1,000. They even designed and built their own source of propulsion-a lightweight gasoline engine. When they started the engine on December 17, the airplane pulsated wildly before taking off. The plane managed to stay aloft for 12 seconds, however, and it flew 120 feet.

By 1905, the Wrights had perfected the first airplane that could turn, circle, and remain airborne for half an hour at a time. Others had flown in balloons and hang gliders, but the Wright brothers were the first to build a full-size machine that could fly under its own power. As the contributors of one of the most outstanding engineering achievements in history, the Wright brothers are accurately called the fathers of aviation.
King Louis XVI and Queen Marie Antoinette ruled France from 1774 to 1789, a time when the country was fighting bankruptcy. The royal couple did not let France’s insecure financial situation limit their immoderate spending, however. Even though the minister of finance repeatedly warned the king and queen against wasting money, they continued to spend great fortunes on their personal pleasure. This lavish spending greatly enraged the people of France. They felt that the royal couple bought its luxurious lifestyle at the poor people’s expense.

Marie Antoinette, the beautiful but exceedingly impractical queen, seemed uncaring about her subjects’ misery. While French citizens begged for lower taxes, the queen embellished her palace with extravagant works of art. She also surrounded herself with artists, writers, and musicians, who encouraged the queen to spend money even more profusely.

While the queen’s favorites glutted themselves on huge feasts at the royal table, many people in France were starving. The French government taxed the citizens outrageously. These high taxes paid for the entertainments the queen and her court so enjoyed. When the minister of finance tried to stop these royal spendthrifts, the queen replaced him. The intense hatred that the people felt for Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette kept building until it led to the French Revolution. During this time of struggle and violence (1789-1799), thousands of aristocrats, as well as the king and queen themselves, lost their lives at the guillotine. Perhaps if Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette had reined in their extravagant spending, the events that rocked France would not have occurred.
Marie Curie was one of the most accomplished scientists in history. Together with her husband, Pierre, she discovered radium, an element widely used for treating cancer, and studied uranium and other radioactive substances. Pierre and Marie’s amicable collaboration later helped to unlock the secrets of the atom.

Marie was born in 1867 in Warsaw, Poland, where her father was a professor of physics. At an early age, she displayed a brilliant mind and a blithe personality. Her great exuberance for learning prompted her to continue with her studies after high school. She became disgruntled, however, when she learned that the university in Warsaw was closed to women. Determined to receive a higher education, she defiantly left Poland and in 1891 entered the Sorbonne, a French university, where she earned her master’s degree and doctorate in physics.

Marie was fortunate to have studied at the Sorbonne with some of the greatest scientists of her day, one of whom was Pierre Curie. Marie and Pierre were married in 1895 and spent many productive years working together in the physics laboratory. A short time after they discovered radium, Pierre was killed by a horse-drawn wagon in 1906. Marie was stunned by this horrible misfortune and endured heartbreaking anguish. Despondently she recalled their close relationship and the joy that they had shared in scientific research. The fact that she had two young daughters to raise by herself greatly increased her distress.

Curie’s feeling of desolation finally began to fade when she was asked to succeed her husband as a physics professor at the Sorbonne. She was the first woman to be given a professorship at the world-famous university. In 1911 she received the Nobel Prize in chemistry for isolating radium. Although Marie Curie eventually suffered a fatal illness from her long exposure to radium, she never became disillusioned about her work. Regardless of the consequences, she had dedicated herself to science and to revealing the mysteries of the physical world.
Hyperinflation refers to when the value of money drops rapidly. During World War I, Germany paid for the war by borrowing. The German Mark steadily lost value as the war went on and German people could buy less and less. After losing the war, Germany was required to make large payments to the Allies. They paid all the debts that they could by printing more money. Soon the German Mark was worthless. When the war had started, the U.S. Dollar was worth around four German Marks. By November of 1923, one U.S. Dollar was worth 4,210,500,000,000 German Marks. At this point the money had more value as a fuel than as a currency, and people burned it to stay warm.
Emma looked at the cookies. She knew that something was wrong with them. They just didn’t look right. It’s not that the cookies weren’t the proper size or shape. They were perfectly round and even the chocolate chips seemed evenly distributed. It was something else, something in the texture. Emma struggled to break one of the cookies in half. It wouldn’t break. She strained and strained but the cookie was harder than a brick. Emma tossed the cookie into the wastebasket with a loud thud. Glass shattered when it hit the bottom of the can. Emma put her head into her palm and sighed.
"Presto chango!" I shouted as I stuffed my hand in to the tall black hat on the table and felt around for something fluffy. "Abracadabra!" I blurted out hesitantly as I continued probing around the hat for the rabbit. "Ta-da!" I said, as if hoping that the words would actually make the bunny appear in the hat, but it was all in vain. The bunny was gone and my show was over, but there I was standing on the stage mumbling pointless incantations.
Wolverines are medium sized mammals. They weigh no more than 50 lbs. Yet they have earned their reputation for ferocity by killing prey many times their size. But why do they get in so many fights? The reason why wolverines have so many conflicts with other animals (including wolves, cougars, and even bears) is probably because of the wolverine's preferred hunting style. Rather than chasing down or tricking its prey like most hunters, the wolverine prefers to take its meals directly from other hunters. So while a polar bear or a lone wolf might be enjoying a hard earned carcass, a hungry wolverine may try to take his lunch. As you might imagine, this style of hunting get the wolverine in plenty of fights.

Ryan was looking forward to sleeping over at his friend Robert's house. Though they had been classmates for a while, the two had only recently become good friends. Ryan packed up his sleeping bag, a pillow, and a few of his favorite toys and games, and then his mom dropped him off at Robert's. Robert met Ryan on the porch and the two did their secret handshake and started playing right away. First they played pirates in Robert's tree fort. Next they played ninjas in the driveway. Then it started getting dark and they went inside of Robert's house. As soon as they walked in the house, Ryan's eyes starting getting red and itchy. He saw a big orange cat sitting on the couch. Then he started sneezing uncontrollably. "I'm sorry, Robert. It's been a lot of fun, but I have to call my mom."
The Blind Men and the Elephant
Six blind men who stood by the roadside every day and asked for money from the people who passed. They had often heard of elephants, but they had never seen one. How could they? They were blind.
It so happened one morning that an elephant was driven down the road where they stood. When they were told that the great beast was before them, they asked the driver to let him stop so that they might see him.
Of course they could not see him with their eyes, but they thought that by touching him they could learn just what kind of animal he was.
The first one happened to put his hand on the elephant's side. “Well, well!” he said, “Now I know all about this beast. He is exactly like a wall.”
The second felt only of the elephant's tusk. “My brother,” he said, “You are mistaken. He is not at all like a wall. He is round and smooth and sharp. He is more like a spear than anything else.”
The third happened to take hold of the elephant's trunk. “Both of you are wrong,” he said. “Anybody who knows anything can see that this elephant is like a snake.”
The fourth reached out his arms and grasped one of the elephant's legs. “Oh, how blind you are,” he said. “It is very plain to me that he is round and tall like a tree.”
The fifth was a very tall man, and he
chanced to take hold of the elephant's ear.
“The blindest man ought to know that this beast is not like any of the things that you name,” he said. “He is exactly like a huge fan.”
It took the sixth blind man some time before he could find the elephant at all. At last he seized the animal's tail. “Oh foolish fellows,” he cried, “you surely have lost your senses. This elephant is not like a wall or a spear or a snake or a tree, nor is he like a fan. But any man with any sense can see that he is exactly like a rope.”
Then the elephant moved on, and the six blind men sat by the roadside all day and quarreled about him. Each believed that he knew just how the animal looked, and each called the others unkind names because they did not agree with each other.
People who have eyes sometimes act as foolishly.
Landforms
There are many different types of landforms. Landforms are natural features on the planet’s surface. You probably know about some of them already!
Mountains are very tall landforms. They can be pointed or rounded, and some are even volcanic!
When there are many mountains together, it is called a mountain range. Some mountains are
formed from lava, while other mountains are formed when the plates under the earth’s surface crash together and push up the land. Either way mountains are formed, it takes many, many years.
Valleys are the spaces between mountains. Some valleys are V-shaped, and some are U-shaped. Many people live in valleys, because they have a comfortable temperature, are protected, and may have rivers flowing through them.
Plateaus are like mountains, but instead of pointed or rounded tops, they are flat on top. They usually form when magma rises, but doesn’t break through the surface. The land rises instead.
Plains are large, flat areas of land. Since flat land is easy to build on, many cities are on plains. Many plants can grow on plains, as well. Some plains are by oceans, and are called ocean plains. Plains that are by rivers are called river plains, and are especially good for growing crops.
Islands are areas of land surrounded by water on all sides. They can be formed by underwater volcanoes. The lava builds up over time and eventually breaks the surface of the ocean.
Deserts are another type of landform. They are large areas of land that do not receive a lot of rainfall. They can be very hot during the day, and very cold at night. It is difficult for many plants and animals to live in deserts.
What kind of landform would you like to live on?
A Big White Hen

There was once a big, white hen that had twelve little chickens. They were very small, and the old hen took good care of them. She found food for them in the daytime and at night kept them under her wings.
One day, the old hen took her chickens down to a small brook. She thought some fresh air and the water would do them good.
When they got to the brook, they walked on the bank a little while. It was very pretty on the other side of the brook, and the old hen thought she would take her chickens over there.
There was a large stone in the brook; she thought it would be easy for them to jump to that stone and from it to the other side.
So she jumped to the stone and told the children to come after her. For the first time, she found that they would not obey her.
She flapped her wings, and cried, “Come here, all of you! Jump upon this stone as I did. We can then jump to the other side. Come now!”
“O Mother! We can't, we can't, we can't!” said all the little chickens.
“Yes you can if you try,” said the old hen. “Just flap your wings as I did, and you can jump over.”
“I am flapping my wings,” said Chippy, who stood by himself, “but I can't jump any better than I could before.”
The chickens’ wings were simply too small to jump across.
Little Bear lived with his mom and dad in a cozy little cave in the woods. He liked to climb trees. He liked to build little houses out of sticks and leaves. Sometimes his whole family would go for a picnic under a big tree beside the river. Picnic days were Little Bear’s favorite days!
At bedtime, Little Bear’s mom would read him a story. His dad would come in to tell him good night. Little Bear always asked them to leave the bedroom door open a crack. He was just a little bit afraid of the dark.
It was picnic day! They spread out the picnic blanket under the big tree. They had sandwiches and fruit salad. Little Bear climbed the tree, and played in the shallow part of the river.
When it started to get dark, Little Bear’s dad helped him catch lightening bugs. They put them in a glass jar that had a few holes punched in the top for air.
That night, Little Bear’s mom read him a story. His dad came in to say good night. His dad put the jar of lightening bugs next to Little Bear’s bed. They glowed softly in the dark. Little Bear’s dad closed the door and smiled. His idea had worked.
Sammy is a funny little monkey. He lives in a zoo. He likes to eat bananas and play in the treetops. There are lots of other little monkeys in the monkey yard. They like to play on the rope swings and chase each other around.
One day, the zoo keepers had to take down the swings because the ropes were getting old. They might break, and the monkeys might get hurt. Sammy was sad. He sat down under a tree.
Then another little monkey ran over to Sammy. “Race you to the top of this tree!” the little monkey said. Sammy jumped up. He liked this new game! Soon all the monkeys were racing each other up the trees. They all liked this new game.
The Clean Park

Tyler asked his mom if he could ride his bike to the park. “As long as you wear your helmet when you are riding,” she said.
When Tyler got to the park it was filled with people holding garbage bags. A lot of his friends were there and so were some of his teachers. His friend Bella said, “Everyone is pitching in and cleaning the park today.” She asked Tyler if he would help. Tyler said, “Sure,” and asked for a garbage bag.
There was garbage everywhere. Tyler picked up candy wrappers, juice pouches, newspapers and apple cores. It was really gross. After an hour, he had filled three garbage bags. His friends filled a lot of garbage bags too.
When everyone was finished, one of the teachers loaded the filled garbage bags into his pick-up truck to take them to the dump. The park looked great. They put up signs around the park that read, “Please place garbage in garbage cans and help keep the park clean.”
The teachers bought pizza and lemonade for everyone who helped clean the park. After they ate, Tyler and his friends made sure to put their garbage into the garbage cans.
"Click!" That's the sound of safety. That's the sound of survival. That's the sound of a seat belt locking in place. Seat belts save lives and that's a fact. That's why I don't drive anywhere until mine is on tight. Choosing to wear your seat belt is a simple as choosing between life and death. Which one do you choose?
Think about it. When you're driving in a car, you may be going 60 MPH or faster. That car is zipping down the road. Then somebody ahead of you locks up his or her brakes. Your driver doesn't have time to stop. The car that you are in crashes. Your car was going 60 miles per hour. Now it has suddenly stopped. Your body, however, is still going 60 MPH. What's going to stop your body? Will it be the windshield or your seat belt? Every time that you get into a car you make that choice. I choose the seat belt.
Some people think that seat belts are uncool. They think that seat belts cramp their style, or that seat belts are uncomfortable. To them I say, what's more uncomfortable? Wearing a seat belt or flying through a car windshield? What's more uncool? Being safely anchored to a car, or skidding across the road in your jean shorts? Wearing a seat belt is both cooler and more comfortable than the alternatives.
Let's just take a closer look at your choices. If you are not wearing your seat belt, you can hop around the car and slide in and out of your seat easily. That sounds like a lot of fun. But, you are also more likely to die or suffer serious injuries. If you are wearing a seat belt, you have to stay in your seat. That's no fun. But, you are much more likely to walk away unharmed from a car accident. Hmmm... A small pleasure for a serious pain. That's a tough choice. I think that I'll avoid the serious pain.
How about giving money away? Do you like to give your money away? Probably not. And when you don't wear your seat belt, you are begging to give your money away. That's because kids are required to wear seat belts in every state in America. If you're riding in a car, and you don't have a seat belt on, the police can give you or your driver a ticket. Then you will have to give money to the city. I'd rather keep my money, but you can spend yours how you want.
Wearing a seat belt does not make you invincible. You can still get hurt or killed while wearing your seat belt. But wearing them has proven to be safer than driving without them.
You are much less likely to be killed in a car wreck if you are wearing a seat belt. You are much less likely to get seriously injured if you are wearing one. So why not take the safer way? Why not go the way that has been proven to result in fewer deaths? You do want to live, don't you?
The Maginot Line was one of the largest military structures ever built, second only to the Great Wall of China. It was a series of bunkers, forts, turrets, and obstacles that spanned more than 450 miles of France's border with Germany. Built between 1930 and 1940, it was one of the world's most impressive forts, yet it proved to be almost useless.
The Maginot Line was named after the man who argued for its construction, French Minister of War André Maginot. André Maginot had fought with the French against the Germans in the First World War. Much of this conflict took place along the Western Front, which was a line of trenches across which the two sides faced one another. Both sides dug in deep and each lost many men over little ground. Conditions were horrid for all and there was a stalemate for many years as neither side was able to move the other.
Maginot never forgot these awful conditions. He wanted to build a line of defenses that would give the French an advantage in a similar conflict. He feared, rightfully so, that the Germans would attack France again. Germany's population nearly doubled France's. The line of defenses that Maginot pictured would allow a smaller French army to hold off a larger German force. In 1929, Maginot convinced the French Parliament to fund his vision.
Though calling it a line makes it seem thin, the Maginot Line was in fact quite deep. It was fifteen miles wide at some points and varied in structure. There were outposts disguised as houses. These were manned by troops and rigged with explosives. There were antitank rails and obstacles. These were planted in the ground to prevent tanks and trucks from passing. There were bunkers armed with mounted machine guns and anti-tank guns. These were for pushing back attackers. And there were many large and small fortresses along the line. Each had mess halls, lots of supplies, and air conditioning. The Maginot line would give the French a supreme edge in the case of a head-on invasion by the Germans.
Unfortunately for the French, the Germans did not attack head-on. They positioned a decoy army in front of the line to distract the French. While the French waited, the Germans snuck a larger force through Belgium. Belgium is France's northeastern neighbor. The French did have some defenses along their border with Belgium, but this part of the Maginot line was weak. The Germans made quick work of these defenses. Within five days of their initial attack they were well into France.
Once they were in France, the Germans attempted to seize the main forts along the Maginot Line. They were not successful. The forts had proved to be strong, but they failed to hold back the Germans. The Germans had taken Paris, France's capital city. Soon after the French commander ordered his men to stand down. He commanded the French defenders to leave their bases along the Maginot Line. These soldiers were then taken to POW camps.
While the Maginot Line did not work in the way that the French had hoped, they did benefit by having built it. Belgium and England were strong allies. England had pledged to protect Belgium. Belgium declared itself a neutral country, one which wanted to stay out of wars. When Germany invaded Belgium to bypass the Maginot Line, they violated Belgium's neutrality. This led to England entering the war sooner.
Though the Maginot Line is no longer used militarily, many of the buildings remain. Some of the forts are now wine cellars or mushroom farms. One was turned into a disco club. Today the Maginot Line is often used as a metaphor. People may refer to a failed project in which someone placed a lot of hope as a Maginot Line. Also, the Maginot Line lives on as the best-known symbol of the common saying that "generals always fight the last war."
Sennin the Hermit
In the far-away land of Japan, there was a little village that lay at the foot of a high mountain.
Every day the children went to play on the grassy bank near a pond at one end of the village. They threw stones into the water. They fished, and they sailed their toy boats. They picked the wild flowers that grew in the fields nearby. They carried with them rice to eat, and, from morning until evening, they played near the pond.
One day, while they were playing, the children were surprised to see an old man with a long, white beard walking toward them. He came from the direction of the mountain.
The children stopped their games to watch the old man. He came into their midst and, patting them upon their heads easily, made them his friends.
The children continued their play because they knew that the old man was kind.
The man watched the children, and when it was time for them to go home, he said, “Come to the flat rock on the side of the mountain tomorrow and I will show you some wonderful games.”
Then he climbed up the mountain once more and disappeared. The following morning, the children went to the flat rock. They found the old man waiting for them.
“Now, my dear children,” he said, “I am going to amuse you. Look here!”
He picked up some dry sticks. He blew at the ends of the sticks, and at once they became sprays of beautiful cherry, plum, and peach blossoms. He passed a branch of each of the flowers to the girls.
Then he took a stone and threw it into the air. The stone turned into a dove!
Another stone became an eagle, another a nightingale, or any bird a boy chose to name.
“Now,” said the old man, “I will show you some animals that I am sure will make you laugh.” The children clapped their hands.
He recited some verses, and a company of monkeys came leaping upon the rock. The monkeys jumped about, grinning at the same time and performing funny tricks. The children clapped their hands again. Then the old man bowed to them and said, “Children, I can play no more games today. It is time for you to go back to the village. Farewell.”
The old man turned to go. He went up the mountain in the direction of a cave. The children tried to follow him, but in spite of his age, he was more nimble than they. They ran far enough, however, to see him enter the cave.
When they reached the entrance, the old man had disappeared.
The cave was surrounded by fragrant flowers, but the children did not dare to go into its depths.
Suddenly one of the girls pointed upwards and cried, “There is the old grandfather!”
The others looked up, and there, standing on a cloud over the top of the mountain, was the old man.
“Let us go home now,” said one of the boys.
On the way, they met two men of the village whom their parents had sent to search for them. When the children had told their story, one of the men exclaimed, “Ah, happy children! The kind old man is surely Sennin, the wonderful Hermit of the Mountain!”
Is it the Shoes?

Basketball players with gravity-defying vertical jumps are said to have "hops", while spiking specialists on a volleyball team need to have good "ups" in order to elevate
above the net. Whatever you choose to call it, athletes from the junior high level to the professional level would love to improve their vertical leaping ability. New developments in the design of specialized training shoes are allowing athletes to do just that - and also reduce their risk of injury.
Plyometric platform shoes have been around since the mid 80's. In 1993, Jumpsoles came to market as the first plyometric platform that could be easily strapped on over regular shoes and easily taken off. The shoes are elevated 2 inches off the ground at the ball of the foot to train the user to walk and run on their toes. Similar to wearing high heel shoes without the heel, the calf muscles have to work overtime to keep the heel off the ground. By doing a series of plyometric exercises in these shoes, fast twitch muscle reflexes are developed which can translate to increased vertical jump - and running speed.
National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum
More than 350,000 fans visit the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum located in Cooperstown, New York, every year. The museum, established in 1939 is located in the very town where Abner Doubleday was said to have designed the game approximately 100 years prior.
Cooperstown is home to less than 2,000 people in Central New York. Cooperstown is located in Ostego County and is also home to the Farmers’ Museum. If a map of New York State was placed on a dart board, Cooperstown would be the bull’s-eye.
Great baseball players, such as Babe Ruth and Ted William's, are honored in life size woodcarvings in the Hall of Fame Gallery. The Cooperstown Room traces the history and development of baseball. Displays of women in baseball, the All Star Game, and world tours can be found on the museums second floor.
Each year new players are inducted into the Hall of Fame. The process of selection is highly competitive. Players can be inducted by either the Baseball Writers Association of America or the Veterans Committee. The Baseball Writers Association of America is composed of journalists who write for newspapers, magazines, and credentialed web sites. The Veterans Committee consists of veteran and retired professional baseball executives, managers, players, and umpires.
Any player who has 10 years professional baseball experience is eligible to be inducted into the Cooperstown Hall. You cannot be considered until you have been retired for a full 5 years.
A newly constructed wing houses a 200-seat movie theatre and interactive exhibits that make the trip, from anywhere, worthwhile!
How We Hear Sounds
When a sound is created, it travels from its source in waves, called
sound waves. Different sources, or causes, of sounds create different kinds of sound waves. The part of the ear that is outside our head is called the pinna. The pinna helps to catch the sound waves around us and guide them inside the ear. As a sound wave enters the ear, it hits the eardrum. The eardrum is a thin layer of skin called a membrane that separates the outer ear from the middle ear. The eardrum is stretched tight, like the top of a drum, causing it to vibrate when sound waves hit it.
Just behind the eardrum are three tiny bones called the hammer, the anvil, and the stirrup. These are the smallest bones in the human body. All together, they are no larger than a pea. When a sound wave hits the eardrum, it begins to vibrate and press back against the tiny bones in the inner ear. The bones pick up the sound wave and pass it on into the inner ear. In the inner ear, a spiral-shaped tube called the cochlea carries the sound wave along and transforms it into the kind of energy that the brain can detect.
From the moment the sound was created—by a car horn, or a dog’s bark, or a whistle—the sound wave has a certain pattern that is different from other sound wave patterns. This pattern never changes as the sound wave travels through the air, hits the ear drum, moves on to the middle and inner ear. The pattern of the sound wave tells the brain what caused the sound.
The Mystery of the Maya
The Mayan Indians lived in Mexico for thousands of years before the Spanish arrived in the 1500s. The Maya were an intelligent, culturally rich people whose achievements were many. They had farms, beautiful palaces, and cities with many buildings. The Mayan people knew a lot about nature and the world around them. This knowledge helped them to live a better life than most people of that time, because they could use it to make their lives more comfortable and rewarding. Knowledge about tools and farming, for instance, made their work easier and more productive.

In ancient Mexico there were many small clearings in the forest. In each clearing was a village with fields of corn, beans, and other crops around it. To clear the land for farms, the Maya cut down trees with stone axes. They planted seeds by digging holes in the ground with pointed sticks. A farmer was able to grow crops that produced food for several people. But not every Maya had to be a farmer. Some were cloth makers, builders, or priests.

The Maya believed in many gods, including rain gods, sun gods, and corn gods. The people built large temples to honor the Mayan gods. Skillful workers built cities around these temples. It was difficult for them to construct these cities, because they had no horses to carry the heavy stone they used to build with. Workers had to carry all of the building materials themselves. Today, many of these ancient Mayan cities and temples are still standing.

Although the cities that the Maya built were beautiful, and the people worked hard to build them, very few of the people lived in them. Usually, only the priests lived in the cities.

The other people lived in small villages in the forests. Their houses were much simpler than the elaborate structures in the cities. They lived in small huts with no windows. The walls were made of poles covered with dried mud, and the roof was made of grass or leaves. Most Maya lived a simple life close to nature.

Measuring time was important to the Maya, so they developed a system for measuring it accurately. Farmers needed to know when to plant and harvest their crops. Mayan priests made a system to keep track of time. They wrote numbers as dots (...) and bars (-). A dot was one and a bar was five.

The Mayan priests studied the Sun, Moon, stars, and planets. They made a calendar from what they learned. The year was divided into 18 months of 20 days each with five days left over. The Mayan calendar was far more accurate than the European calendars of the time.

Around the year 800, the Maya left their villages and beautiful cities, never to return. No one knows why this happened. They may have died from an infectious disease. They may have left because the soil could no longer grow crops. Archaeologists are still trying to find the lost secrets of the Maya. They are still one of our greatest mysteries.
Large fires are now blazing across seven western states, the National Interagency Fire Center reports from its Boise, Idaho headquarters. Firefighters contained four large fires Tuesday, while three new ones were reported.

All western states are reporting very high to extreme fire conditions, which could increase due to a warming trend over the next several days. More than 100 new smaller fires were reported Wednesday, most of which were contained by initial attack efforts.

In this mid-summer national wildlands fire report, the federal agency responsible for firefighting says 1,547,312 acres have been burned so far this year. The area burned is below the 10 year average, and half the area burned at this time last year, a severe fire season.

The fire situation could get much worse, warns Barry Hill, director of the Natural Resources and Environment division of the General Accounting Office. Testifying before the House Forest and Forest Health Subcommittee Tuesday, Hill said there are problems with the Forest Service and Interior Department's implementation of the National Fire Plan. 
Space Based Astronomy
If you go to the country, far from city lights, you can see about 3,000 stars on a clear night. If your eyes were bigger, you could see many more stars. With a pair of binoculars, an optical device that effectively enlarges the pupil of your eye by about 30 times, the number of stars you can see increases to the tens of thousands. With a medium-sized telescope with a light-collecting mirror 30 centimeters in diameter, you can see hundreds of thousands of stars. With a large observatory telescope, millions of stars become visible.
It would seem that when it comes to observing the universe, the larger the instrument, the better. This is true up to a point, but there are limits—limits not imposed by technology but by nature itself.
Surrounding Earth is a life-sustaining atmosphere that stands between our eyes and the radiation that falls upon Earth from outer space. This radiation is comprised of a very broad spectrum of energies and wavelengths. Collectively, they are referred to as the electromagnetic spectrum. They range from radio and microwave radiation on the low energy (long wavelength) end through infrared, visible, ultraviolet, and x-rays to gamma rays on the high energy (short wavelength) end. Gases and other components of our atmosphere distort, filter, and block most of this radiation permitting only a partial
picture, primarily visible radiation and some radio waves, to reach Earth’s surface. Although many things can
be learned about our universe by studying it from the surface of Earth, the story is incomplete. To view celestial objects over the whole range of the electromagnetic spectrum, it is essential to climb above the atmosphere into outer space.
From its earliest days, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has used the emerging technology of rockets to explore the universe. By lofting telescopes and other scientific instruments above the veil of Earth’s atmosphere, NASA has delivered a treasure house of information to astronomers, leading them to rethink their most fundamental ideas about what the universe is, how it came to be, how it functions, and what it is likely to become.
The Goose Voyage
“Are you ready Greg?” Shane asked. “It’s going to be one long adventure!”
“I was born ready!” I answered. We were all getting ready for our yearly migration south. The days were growing shorter, the weather was getting colder, and we all just felt like it was time to move. Somehow, we all knew there’d be more food and we’d be more comfortable if we flew south for the winter.
This was mine and Shane’s first time migrating. We were a little nervous about going, but everyone in the flock reassured us that we’d know exactly what to do when the time came. We had a lot of questions: why do we go south every year; what happens on the way; and how do we know when we’re there? We got a lot of different answers, so we still weren’t exactly sure what to expect.
“Well, let’s go!” Shane said. We met up with the rest of the flock. Shane’s mom was going to be the point of the flock first. We were all going to fly in a “V” shape, because they all said it makes it easier on everyone else to fly behind the point. Almost everyone would take a turn being the point, so that no one goose would get too tired. Shane’s mom took off, and we all followed.
Higher and higher we flew, then everyone started leveling off. We were in our “V!” Flying always felt great, it was fun to look at everything far below us, and it felt good to stretch out our wings. Soon enough, I could see why we were flying in the “V.” Flying for this long was tiring, but it was much easier to fly in the “V” than by myself! It was also pretty cold up here, which wasn’t too bad, but wasn’t exactly fun either.
On and on and on we went. Nothing exciting happened, we were just flying along for miles. It was too hard to talk to each other, we just followed the point. I was getting really hungry, and couldn’t wait for a break. Finally, we started heading down to land. I knew somehow that this wasn’t our final destination, but I was glad for the break.
I went to find Shane as soon as we landed, but my mom and dad stopped me to ask how I was doing. “I’m fine,” I answered. “Migrating isn’t as exciting as I thought it would be.”
“Be glad for that, Greg,” Mom answered. “If it’s exciting, that means there are problems. Problems are great in stories you hear, but it’s stressful to be in those situations. I’m happy with a boring migration!”
Dad agreed with mom. “OK,” I sighed, “I’m going to find Shane.” Shane was by the water, eating some plants.
“How’s the migration going for you so far?” I asked him.
“I’m glad we have a break, we need it. I’m shaken up!” he answered. “Shaken up? Why? It’s been pretty boring so far!” I said.
“Didn’t you see the eagle? It was coming after us! It almost got Lucy!” Shane exclaimed.
“What? I didn’t see that! What happened?”
“Well, I must have been flying behind you if you didn’t see it. We were just minding our own business, when my dad spotted the eagle. We decided to move closer together, but Lucy didn’t notice. The eagle started circling above her, then it dove! Luckily we all honked, and she got out of the way, but it was a close call! I’m ready to be done migrating,” said Shane. I thought about how terrified Lucy must have been, and if I’d have seen it, I’d probably be just as shaken up as Shane. I was glad I didn’t see it.
“Hopefully that will be the only crazy thing that happens during this migration,” I said. “Let’s get some rest. We have another busy day of flying tomorrow.”
Mid Hudson Balloon Festival
Hot air balloon travel is the oldest human flight device. Ballooning dates back to 1783 when the first untethered manned balloon took flight in France. They can be propelled by wind or forced air.
Over the years hot air balloons of all kinds have been deployed including those shaped as our favorite animals and cartoon characters. There have even been balloons shaped like large castles and cathedrals to commemorate events.
Each July come to Dutchess County, New York to the Mid Hudson Balloon Festival. Sponsored and promoted by the Poughkeepsie Area Chamber of Commerce balloonists from both New York and New Jersey will pilot their balloons over the beautiful landscape of the Hudson Valley.
The festival has been an annual event since 1992. During the two day event, pilots offer balloon rides that usually last two to three hours. Roughly a dozen pilots make their way out to festival every year. During normal conditions 8 to 10 pilots are normally flying.
During the entire festival, a variety of other activities take place at a local city park. In addition to family shows and rides, carnival games will be on hand to challenge and entertain. Music and old cars will also be included to take spectators back in time and to listen to the oldies. Fireworks over the majestic Hudson River will complete the festival.
WHAT boy would not be an Indian for a while when he thinks of the freest life in the world? This life was mine. Every day there was a real hunt. There was real game. Occasionally there was a medicine dance away off in the woods where no one could disturb us, in which the boys impersonated their elders, Brave Bull, Standing Elk, High Hawk, Medicine Bear, and the rest. They painted and imitated their fathers and grandfathers to the minutest detail, and accurately too, because they had seen the real thing all their lives.
We were not only good mimics but we were close students of nature. We studied the habits of animals just as you study your books. We watched the men of our people and represented them in our play; then learned to emulate them in our lives. No people have a better use of their five senses.
Spring
In spring, there is a lot of rain. The weather gets warmer. Flowers bloom. Trees get leaves. Grass grows. Many animals, like birds and rabbits, have babies in the spring. Birds sing. People like to be outside in the spring.
Foods made from grains (wheat, rice, and oats) help form the foundation of a nutritious diet. They provide vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates (starch and dietary fiber), and other substances that are important for good health. Grain products are low in fat, unless fat is added in processing, in preparation, or at the table. Whole grains differ from refined grains in the amount of fiber and nutrients they provide, and different whole grain foods differ in nutrient content, so choose a variety of whole and enriched grains. Eating plenty of whole grains, such as whole wheat bread or oatmeal (see box 11), as part of the healthful eating patterns described by these guidelines, may help protect you against many chronic diseases. Aim for at least 6 servings of grain products per day more if you are an older child or teenager, an adult man, or an active woman (see box 7) and include several servings of whole grain foods. See box 8 for serving sizes.

Vitamins, minerals, fiber, and other protective substances in whole grain foods contribute to the health benefits of whole grains. Refined grains are low in fiber and in the protective substances that accompany fiber. Eating plenty of fiber-containing foods, such as whole grains (and also many fruits and vegetables) promotes proper bowel function. The high fiber content of many whole grains may also help you to feel full with fewer calories. Fiber is best obtained from foods like whole grains, fruits, and vegetables rather than from fiber supplements for several reasons: there are many types of fiber, the composition of fiber is poorly understood, and other protective substances accompany fiber in foods. Use the Nutrition Facts Label to help choose grains that are rich in fiber and low in saturated fat and sodium. 
My Little Kitty

This is my little kitty.
How soft and white its fur is! Isn’t it pretty? The cat is on the box.
She saw a big rat and ran to catch it.
The kitty was too slow to catch the rat.
The Missing Doll

Jane was very sad. She could not find her doll.
Her mom said, “Look in your room. Maybe your doll is there.”
Jane looked in her room. It was a terrible mess. She started to clean her room.
She put all the books on the shelf. She put her blankets on her bed. She picked up her clothes off the floor.
“I found her,” Jane said.
“My doll was hiding under my clothes. I think she was playing hide and seek.”
Jane put her doll in the dollhouse. Her room was clean, and now it was time to play.
Peanuts and Popcorn

John is going to a baseball game with his aunt. He can’t wait to get there. It is the first game of the season. The stadium is almost full.
He loves to watch baseball, but his favorite part of going to games is eating the snacks. There are many different snacks at baseball games.
A man in a red hat walks up and down the aisles selling peanuts and popcorn.
Guess which is John’s favorite. John likes them both. He especially likes mixing peanuts and popcorn together. If he is really hungry he will have a hot dog.
Town Mouse and Country Mouse
There once was a Town Mouse who went on a visit to his cousin in the
country. Country Mouse led a busy life, keeping up with all his chores. But he loved his town cousin, and gave him a hearty welcome. All he had to offer for a meal were bread and cheese that he had carefully collected from the farmhouse floor, and a jug of water that he brought in each day from the creek down the hill. It was not a feast, but he offered it freely.
Town Mouse rather turned up his long nose at this country food, and said, "I cannot understand, Cousin, how you can put up with such poor food as this. But of course you cannot expect anything better in the country. Come with me, and I will show you how to live. When you have been in town a week, you will wonder how you could ever have stood a country life."
And so the two mice set off for the town and arrived at Town Mouse's home late at night. "You will want something to eat after our long journey," said the polite Town Mouse, and he took his friend into the grand dining- room. There for the taking they found what was left of a fine feast upon the table, and soon the two mice were eating up jellies and cakes and all sorts of other wonderful foods. “It is always like this here,” said Town Mouse. “I don’t have to work for my food at all!”
Suddenly they heard growling and barking. "What is that?" cried Country Mouse.
"It is only the dogs of the house," answered the other.
"Only!" said Country Mouse. "I do not like that kind of music at my dinner." Just at that moment the door flew open, and in came two huge black dogs, growling and snarling. The two mice had to scamper down and run off. They had no time to take any of the delicious foods with them, and Town Mouse had no food or water nicely stored away in his home. "Good- by, Cousin," said Country Mouse.
"What! going so soon?" said the other.
"Yes," said Country Mouse. “I would much rather have bread and cheese in peace than jellies and cakes in fear!”
The Frogs Have a Fashion Show
One day a girl name Betty was outside playing with her dolls. It was getting near lunchtime, and her mother called her inside to eat. Betty was hungry. She hopped up and ran inside, leaving her dolls and all of their clothes behind her.
A frog name JoJo had been watching her from the puddle at the foot of the porch, and when he saw her run inside, JoJo hopped over. Now JoJo was a very vain frog. He not only thought he was the best-looking frog in the neighborhood, he was also always on the lookout for anything that would make him different ― in a better way ― than the other frogs. For this reason, he had his eye on one of Betty’s doll’s hats. He got close to the hat, picked it up, and admired it. It was a red hat with a fine, wide brim. The frog put the hat on his head. It fit perfectly. It also kept the hot sun out of his eyes. The frog hopped back to the puddle at the foot of the porch and looked at his reflection in the still water. He liked what he saw. This hat was just what he needed to make the other frogs green with envy! But was the hat, alone, enough?
He hopped back to the dolls and started to sort through the rest of the things. Two other frogs happened by and stopped to ask him what he was doing.
“Nothing!” the JoJo snapped.
But they saw the hat on JoJo’s head, and they knew how he was, and they suspected that he was up to something and that before the day was over, JoJo would not only think that he was better than the rest of them, he would also be hopping around telling them all so. The other two frogs were determined not to let JoJo do this to them again, so they joined him in sorting through the dolls’ clothes. One of them wrapped a scarf around his thick neck. Another wrapped a blanket around his long body and called it a dress. JoJo put on a pair of purple sunglasses. Then all three of them hopped back to the puddle and admired their reflections. Some other frogs saw them and hopped over to see what they were doing. Not wanting to be left out, they, too, sorted through the doll clothes. One of them slung a small purse over his shoulder. Another fixed a big blue bow to the top of his head.
Just then Betty opened the back door. She was finished with her lunch and wanted to get back to her dolls. But she stopped still in surprise at what she say.
“Mom!” she cried. “The frogs are having a fashion show!”
The Crab and His Mother
A Mother Crab was watching her son play on the beach.
Like all crabs, the Young Crab walked along sideways. He walked along to the left, then he walked along to the right. The Mother Crab saw the lobsters on the other side of the beach. The lobsters were all walking straight forward. The Mother Crab said to her son, “Why do you walk sideways like that, my son? It would be much better to walk straight forward.”
The Young Crab said to his mother, “That is true, dear mother. Show me how to walk straight, and I will follow your example.”
The Mother Crab tried and tried, but she could not walk straight forward. She finally gave up trying, when she saw how foolish she had been to find fault with her son.
Clara Barton: Civil War Hero
War is frightening, because supplies are scarce and people are fighting. It is not fun for people who stay home and have to take care of their homes and towns, but it is especially hard on the soldiers. One woman set out to help as many soldiers as she could during the Civil War, even on the front lines of the battlefield! Her name was Clara Barton.
Clara Barton was born in 1821 in Massachusetts. She worked hard from a young age, helping around the house and taking care of her older siblings. When she was seventeen, she decided to work as a teacher. At that time, men were paid a lot more to work the same jobs as women. Clara worked hard to make sure she got paid the same amount as men for doing the same job. She continued fighting for equal rights for women when she worked in an office in Washington, D.C. in the mid-1850s.
The Civil War began in 1861. Clara knew some soldiers who became injured in nearby battles, so she went to help them by gathering medical supplies, giving the supplies to the soldiers who needed them, and sometimes helping to nurse the soldiers back to health. She wanted to help even more soldiers, so she sent letters asking for help, and placed advertisements in magazines to ask people to donate supplies for the soldiers. She traveled with the army to different battles around the country, gathering supplies and taking care of soldiers. She would care for soldiers not just in hospitals, but on the actual battlefields, putting herself in danger. One time she was caring for a soldier when a bullet went right through her sleeve! She was very lucky not to get hurt. The soldiers were glad to see her, though, and she became known as the “Angel of the Battlefield.”
After the Civil War was over, Clara still wanted to help. She decided to help by tracking down missing soldiers so that their families would know what happened to the soldiers. She worked very hard for many years, but then became sick. Her doctor told her to take some time to rest, so she went to Europe. While in Europe, Clara learned about the Red Cross organization. She wanted to bring the Red Cross to America, so that she could continue to help as many people as possible. She returned to the United States of America, and in 1881, the American Red Cross began, with Clara as the president of the organization. The American Red Cross gathered supplies to help people who needed relief from floods, tornados, and other disasters. She was president until 1904, but continued to help people by teaching first aid strategies and ways to be prepared for emergencies, so more people could help others.
Clara Barton died in 1912, when she was 90 years old. She was a hero to many people because she was brave on the battlefield, helped people of all kinds, and began an organization that still helps people today.
Oranges Everywhere
Bentley was wandering through the trees. The air smelled of oranges all around him. The weather was perfect, and the oranges were growing bigger by the day. He liked to walk through the groves, and loved the smell of the oranges, but he didn’t like that he and his family ate oranges all the time. Sometimes, he wanted to avoid them for weeks at a time.
He wished his family could grow other things, like corn, or the ingredients for his favorite dip that his mom made. His mouth watered just thinking about his favorite dip. Yes, those ingredients would be better than oranges all the time.
“Mom, why do we have to have oranges almost every day?” Bentley asked.
“Well, since we grow them, there are plenty around,” his mom replied.
“Does every kid eat as many oranges as we do?” he asked.
“No, definitely not. There are parts of the country and parts of the world that don’t have the type of weather that oranges grow in. We’re actually very lucky!”
“So some kids don’t eat oranges at all?”
“We actually send oranges all over the world, so that if people can’t grow their own oranges, they can still buy and eat them,” said Mom.
“Hmmm... so people move foods all over the world? Are there foods that I like that don’t grow here?”
“There is an ingredient in the dip you like. Artichokes do not grow well here, so they have to be sent from somewhere where they grow well,” replied Mom.
“I never knew!” exclaimed Bentley. “What else moves around like food?”
“Plenty of things! The factories that make your favorite toys are not all in our little town here. The companies make the toys then send the toys to other places. So food and products move from where they can be grown or made easily to places where they can’t be grown or made easily. People move themselves, too. Maybe they’re looking for a specific job that isn’t around where they live, or they want to be closer to their families, or they just want a change of scenery.”
“Wow! I never thought about where all of our food and toys come from, or about people moving far away. It’s very interesting,” Bentley said.
“It sure is. I’m glad you asked. I’m sorry you get tired of eating oranges all the time, but I hope now it makes sense why we do.”
“Yes, but I still might take a break from them every once in a while. Maybe I’ll try to grow my own artichokes!” Bentley replied.
Mom laughed and said, “Sure, honey. Now let’s go make dinner.”
The Singing Plants
Todd awoke to singing. The singing was light and airy. It reminded him of a sunrise. Well that’s appropriate, thought Todd, it’s so early the sun is probably just rising. As his mind grew more awake, Todd realized that he didn’t know where the music was coming from. He checked his radio, as well as his phone. Nothing.
He stretched and looked around his room. Nothing in here would be singing, he thought. Todd got out of bed and walked toward his window, thinking that maybe one of his neighbors was playing music. The music didn’t get louder as he walked toward the window, and when he opened the window he could tell that the music did not come from outside.
Todd walked toward his bedroom door, but was hesitant to go out into the hallway. It was still pretty dark, and the rest of his family was still asleep. That always made him nervous to leave his room. It’s only singing, though, there’s nothing scary about that,Todd thought. Heopenedthe door, and could hear the music coming from downstairs. He walked downstairs and followed the music into the kitchen. There, he found the source of the music, but he couldn’t believe his eyes!
The plants on the windowsill above the sink were singing! Singing plants! How is this possible? There were 3 of them, all gently swaying and singing together. Todd
sat and watched them for awhile, trying to understand how and why the plants had all of a sudden become musical plants. Their song faded away after a few minutes, and the plants became still. Todd stayed to watch, just in case they started singing again.
His Dad found him sitting in the kitchen watching the plants. “What’s going on, Todd?” his dad asked.
“What kind of plant are these?” Todd asked in return.
“They’re just little houseplants, they won’t grow too much bigger than they are now. Why?”
“They were singing. I didn’t know plants could sing!” exclaimed Todd. “Todd, plants don’t sing. Were you dreaming?” Dad asked, concerned. “No, really, they were! That’s what woke me up this morning!”
“Hmmm...” Dad sighed. He walked over to the sink, grabbed a cup, and began to water the plants. He jumped back in surprise when the flowers started singing a happy little tune! “Holy cow! They must have been thirsty! I’ve never seen anything like this!”
Dad walked over to the computer and did a quick Internet search. Todd walked over to join him, and they must have read over 20 websites together. Not a single one said anything about singing plants.
“Well, I don’t know how or why it happened, but we are the lucky caretakers of some very special plants!” said Dad. Todd and his dad made sure to take very good care of their singing plants, and enjoyed their songs for many years.
I couldn't believe that he wanted to play cards at a time like "Would you like to play spades?" he asked nonchalantly, while hovering over my breakup. "No, I don't want to play cards, you twit. My world has been destroyed," I replied in seething rage. He shrugged and continued shuffling the deck.

Money Mark was born rich. He never had to work a day in his life and he got everything handed to him on a silver platter. When he was six, Money Mark wanted to go to a basketball game. His father paid the starting five of the Bulls and Celtics to play a private game of Nerf-ball in Money Mark’s bedroom. When Money Mark turned thirteen, he wanted to start a band. His father hired the Rolling Stones to play with him every Saturday at the family’s private concert hall, though his family was never there. By the time he was twenty-one, Money Mark was bored with life. He was surrounded by a bunch of possessions that he didn’t appreciate and Money Mark could find nothing new or exciting in his life. Despite his vast wealth, Money Mark never found happiness. Penny Petal was born poor. Her family hardly had anything to eat, but they loved each other. Penny Petal appreciated every thing she got. When she was six, her father walked her around the United Center before the Bulls played the Celtics. She was excited by the crazy fans and feeling in the air. She looked forward to the day that she could see a real game. When she was thirteen, she learned to play the buckets. She was an extremely talented musician, a natural percussionist, and everyone on the block loved the rhythms that poured from her palms. By the time she was twenty-one, Penny was a successful businesswoman. Now she had everything that she had ever dreamed of and she truly loved to share her wealth and happiness with her family who supported her through all of the hard times.
Red looked across the prairie. He didn't see anything concerning. He wondered why Texas Joe had hollered like that. Texas Joe turned to him. The ghost that Texas Joe had just seen was gone. Texas Joe swatted at the air. Now he felt crazy. "You have to believe me, Red. It was just here," said Texas Joe. Red scowled at him in disbelief. "What was just here, Joe?" he asked. Red was angry with Texas Joe for disturbing his sleep for no apparent reason.
The Lemondrop Prince admired the land of candy from his butterscotch balcony. He gazed across the ginger ale river but stopped when he saw the most beautiful girl he had ever seen. His heart beat wildly. "I must marry her," he thought to himself. The girl was Lila Licorice. She was very sweet, but not everyone liked her. Some people thought she was gross. Lila was combing her curly hair and dreaming of wearing a beautiful, candy shell dress to the Buttercup Ball. Little did she know that her dreams were about to come true.
Diego looked over the edge. He thought about how far the ground was. The wind gusted. Whitney turned to him and said, "It's beautiful up here, huh?" Diego could not think about beauty. All he could think about was not falling off the edge. He said, "Yeah, Whitney, it really is beautiful. Hey, how long do you want to stay up here?" Whitney laughed and said, "Let's stay up here the rest of our lives!" Diego grimaced. He was afraid that this scenario was all too likely.
The old man stared at the dog. The dog was sitting on his hindquarters and staring back at the old man. The old man put his hands on his hips. The dog barked. The old man reached behind his back and pulled a leather chew from his back pocket. The dog barked again. The old man smiled and laughed. Then he threw the leather chew toy. The dog bounded after the chew toy in a manner that shook the pictures hanging on the walls. The old man laughed deeply.
Greg looked up at the bright lights in the operating room until they burned a white spot in his field of vision. He looked at the face of the surgeon and saw only a white blur. When he looked away, he could see the surgeon's masked face from his peripheries. He could hear him readying an array of metal instruments, many of which looked as though they might belong to a dentist. I hope he's not going to use those on me! Greg thought to himself with terror. The surgeon picked up one that looked like a bent up question mark.
Odin brushed the snowflakes off of his sword and replied, "I will never accept a peace treaty from the Hamburgs. They are our sworn enemies and so long as I can hold a sword, I will point it at Hamburgs." Epée looked at him and wrinkled her face. A long moment passed in silence. Snow continued to fall from the sky. Finally, Epée responded, "But, Odin, think about what peace might mean for the children." Odin sneered and said, "Humph," but made no further comment. Epée drew her weapon.

Kelly took her seat in the airplane. There were three seats in her row and, to her dismay, she was assigned the seat in the middle. As the time of departure drew closer, Kelly grew pleased that she was still sitting alone. "Maybe I'll get the whole row to myself," Kelly said under her breath. Just then two tremendously large men approached. "Excuse me, Miss. I have the inside seat." Kelly sighed. She knew where the other person would be seated as well.
A young girl in a scout uniform knocked on the front door of a white mansion. A man wearing a tuxedo with tails answered the door. "May I help you?" the man asked. The young girl began speaking, "Would you like to buy some cookies? Some of the proceeds go to charity." The man cut off the young girl by saying, "Let me see if the head of the home is available." The young girl smiled and straightened the buttons on her uniform.
If you are confused about something in class, don't wait. Raise your hand and ask for help immediately. Do it while your teacher is still explaining the material. Your teacher will probably be happy that you are taking an active part in your education and should attempt to explain the material in a different way. If you are still confused, ask your teacher if he or she is available after class to give you additional instruction. You are worth it. Don't give up on yourself.
A businessman with dark sunglasses walks down the street. You notice that his briefcase is handcuffed to his hand. Three other men walk behind him. They look like hired thugs to you. You've seen their type before and you've been trained to deal with guys like these. You are sitting in a relaxed posture on a park bench. The businessman doesn't even seem to notice you. You remain completely calm, but the moment of action is upon you. You begin counting in your head, "3... 2... 1..."

"Where is the crystal?" hissed General Zim. Leo spoke slowly. He knew that General Zim would have his head if he failed to respond properly. He figured that the General might have his head even if he did respond properly. "The rebel scum took it, my liege. We are tracking their movements as we speak." General Zim's face curled up. His reptilian tongue flicked in and out of his mouth. "Good. See that you retrieve it, or else." Leo gulped and rubbed the back of his neck. He understood what General Zim was implying.
Tammy and Sammy were both students in Mr. Morton’s reading class. Mr. Morton wasn’t too strict about deadlines, and Sammy took advantage of that. He did all of his homework in his other classes but never bothered to complete Mr. Morton’s reading assignments, figuring that he could complete them later. Tammy, on the other hand, completed each assignment Mr. Morton assigned the night that he assigned it. She had to stay up a little later, but she didn’t want to get a penalty for turning in her reading work late. Tammy knew reading was a core subject and that she had to keep “C” average for the entire year or she would have to go to summer school. When the end of the quarter came, Tammy and Sammy had both planned on going to the Enchanted Castle amusement park, but Mr. Morton called Sammy’s mother, and she grounded Sammy until he turned in all of his work. That weekend was horrible for Sammy. He stayed up until 2:00 AM each night and still couldn’t complete all of the assignments. The whole while, Tammy had a great time eating pizza at Enchanted Castle, watching movies late at night, and enjoying her weekend free of stress and pressure. At the end of the quarter, Sammy was lucky to squeak by with a “C” minus in reading while Tammy earned an “A.” Sammy still hasn’t learned his lesson and probably won’t complete this activity either.
TREASURE HUNT
Danny and Susie were walking to school, when Susie noticed something under the bushes.
“What is that?” Susie asked, as she pointed to the bush.
“Hmmm, I’m not sure.” Danny reached down to grab it. It
was a book, and it looked old. The title was Buried
Treasure. He started looking through the book. It was full of different maps that were supposed to lead to buried treasure. “Wow, this book looks great!”
Susie said, “I want to look too, but we’d better get to school before we’re late.” Danny and Susie anxiously awaited recess, when they would have time to get a better look at the book.
Their friend Fred joined them on the benches at recess time. Susie sat in the middle, holding the book, and turning the pages. Each treasure map had an explanation for where it was found, and what the treasure was supposed to be. The stories were exciting, and Susie, Danny, and Fred let their minds run wild. They wished there was a treasure map in their town for them to explore. What a fun adventure that would be!
They were getting toward the end of the book when a slip of paper fell out. “Wow, this book must be really old, it’s falling apart!” Fred said.
Danny opened the paper. It had the name of their town on top, and it was a map of their town! There was a marking on the map. The friends looked closer. It looked like the markings on the other maps in the book, and that meant one thing: treasure! The end of the school day couldn’t come fast enough - they wanted to go on their own adventure!
After school, the friends met at Danny’s house. They had talked to their parents and looked at the treasure map with them, and Danny’s parents had agreed to drive them around to try to find the treasure. The friends piled in the car.
“Where to?” Danny’s dad asked. Susie looked at the map. The trail started at the pool in the middle of town, so Susie told that to Danny’s dad. Susie gave the map to Fred to take a turn giving directions. He directed them to turn left by the pool, and head towards the library, then handed the map to Danny. Danny looked at the map, and saw that they were almost there! They turned right by the grocery store, and stopped at the park.
“What do you think the treasure is?” asked Fred. “I don’t know, but I hope it’s good!” said Danny.
When Danny’s dad parked, the friends got out of the car. Now was the hard part, where in the park was the treasure? They started looking around for clues. Finally, Susie yelled out to Danny and Fred, and they came running over.
“I found it! At first I didn’t think it was the treasure, because it’s not something we can pick up and take with us, but, when you read it, you’ll see!” Susie said. She pointed to the tree they were wall standing by. On the trunk, someone had carved a message. It said, “The best treasure is a good adventure with good friends!” There were other names carved into the tree.
“Wow, that’s true. It was so fun going on a treasure hunt with you both. Let’s sign our names!” The friends carved their names, and Danny’s dad took a picture of them all with the tree. Even though they didn’t get to keep anything, they agreed that it was a great day.

Open for Business
Zion really wanted to open his own business. He loved watching shows on TV about people who invented great things and helped other people love their inventions, too. He tried to learn about how people started their own businesses and how they got their great ideas, but a lot of it was too hard for him to understand yet. His mom suggested that he look around the community for a business leader who might be able to help him understand, so that he could start his own business one day.
One day, he and his mom were out getting ice cream, and the shop owner, Mr. Warner, was the one serving them. Zion’s mom asked if he had a few minutes to talk, and Mr. Warner sat down with them.
“Mr. Warner, Zion really wants to open his own business one day. Do you think you could help him understand how to run a business?” Zion’s mom asked.
“I can try,” replied Mr. Warner, “but a lot of it is hard to understand. There is a lot of math, and plenty of things you just have to learn through trial and error.”
“A lot of math?” asked Zion. “Why do you need to know math to run a business?”
“Where do I even start? Well, when you own a business, you need to think about money flow. You have to know how much it costs to make or buy your items for the store, how much money you have to pay for your office space, and how much money you have to pay your workers. There are other costs, too, but we can just start with those. Each month, you have to make sure that you make enough money to cover those costs.”
“I know that when you sell the ice cream that is how you get the money back from buying the ice cream, but where do you get money for the other things?” Zion asked.
“We actually have to sell the ice cream for more money than we bought the ingredients for. This is one time when math comes in. I have to total up how much I spent on all of the ingredients. Then I have to figure out how many servings of ice cream those ingredients will make. Next, I have to divide the cost by the servings, and add in extra to pay for the building and for my workers’ paychecks,” Mr. Warner responded. “But, I also have to make sure that it’s not too expensive, and that it tastes delicious, otherwise no one will want to come to my shop. When I make really good ice cream that brings in a lot of customers, then I know I’m running my business the right way. If I don’t make good ice cream, then I don’t make any money. That would be awful, because I have to be able to pay all of the wonderful people who work here!”
It was time for them to go, but Zion was very thankful for Mr. Warner’s explanation. “Thank you, Mr. Warner. There’s a lot for me to learn!”
“Anytime, Zion. You’re welcome to come back and ask more questions, I’m happy to help a future business leader!”
Curious About Careers: Firefighters
Firefighting is an important job to keep people safe and help keep fires from damaging too much property. It is a tough job, but if you like to help people, it could be the job for you!
Firefighters have to take physical tests to make sure their bodies are strong enough to do all of the work required. They have to be able to carry heavy objects, go up many flights of stairs, and work for a long time. Firefighters also go through frequent training. They need to be aware of the latest techniques in fighting fires, and keeping themselves and
others safe. Not only do they train themselves, but they also talk to other people about fire safety. Some schools have the firefighters come in every year to teach kids about how to stay safe around fire. One of the most important parts of being a firefighter is working as a team. Firefighters have to work together to stop fires, even down to holding the hose together!
Some firefighters stay at the fire station for an entire day, including overnight. Whenthere is not a fire going on, firefighters make sure all of their equipment is clean and in working order. After dinner, they are able to use their free time to relax. Firefighting is stressful, though. Firefighters never know when a fire or other emergency is going to happen, so they have to be ready at all times. This means that even if they just sat down to eat dinner when the fire alarm goes off, they can’t finish eating. They have to leave all of their food where it is and go to help right away. Even in the middle of the night, firefighters have to be able to wake up quickly to get to the emergency.
Firefighters wear special equipment to keep them safe. They wear big jackets and pants made of special materials to deter fire. Helmets are another type of protective equipment to protect their heads from falling objects. They wear face masks and oxygen tanks to help them breathe even when the air is filled with smoke. Firefighters also wear boots to protect their feet from kicking objects and from the heat.
In addition to the equipment they wear, there is other equipment that firefighters use to help them do their jobs more easily. They use fire trucks and fire engines that are equipped with special tools. In the fire engines they have their tools organized so that they can quickly find and use them. Firefighters use hoses to connect to fire hydrants so that they can get a lot of water at one time. They use axes to break down doors for quick access to a fire. Also, they may bring smaller fire extinguishers in case the fire is a small one that they don’t need a big hose for. They use ladders to reach people or animals in high places, such as second stories or trees.
Firefighters don’t just put out fires. There are also rescue trucks that can help people who are in car crashes. These vehicles have other tools to help get people out of cars if they’re stuck, such as jacks to lift the car, tools to break the windows, and other tools to help get car doors open.
In some places, firefighters also have to be prepared to help people who are sick or injured. These firefighters might be trained as paramedics. These fire departments have ambulances that carry the firefighters and paramedics to the accident, then have all the tools to help treat the injured.
Thankfully, firefighters are close by to help us if there’s ever an emergency. Firefighting is not easy, but if you like helping people, it might be a good fit for you!
The Milkmaid and her Pail
Patty the Milkmaid was going to market, carrying her milk in a pail on her head. As she walked along she began to plan what she would do with the money she would get for the milk. "I'll buy some chickens from Farmer Brown," she said to herself. "They will lay eggs each morning. Then I will sell the eggs to the parson's wife. With the money that I get from the sale of the eggs, I'll buy myself a pretty new dress and a ribbon for my hair. Patty walked along, thinking about the pretty new dress and the ribbon for her hair. She forgot all about the pail of milk she was carrying on her head. She tossed her head back, the pail fell off her head, and all the milk spilled out onto the road. So Patty had to go home and tell her mother what had happened. "Ah, my child," said her mother, don’t count your chickens before they hatch.”
The Tiger and the Fox
A tiger was caught in a cage. He pushed and pulled and beat upon the
bars. He roared with rage when the bars held firm. By chance, a fox came along. “Let me out of this cage, kind fox,” cried the tiger.
“No, my friend,” said the fox. “You would eat me if I did.”
“Not at all!” swore the tiger. I would be grateful to you forever, and serve you as a slave.” The tiger continued to beg, and cry, and plead, until the fox finally agreed to let him out.
The tiger leaped out and grabbed the fox. “What a fool you are!” cried the tiger. “I am going to eat you up right now!”
‘What if you get trapped again?” asked the fox. “That is what you should be thinking about. How did it happen, anyway?” So tiger described exactly what had happened. “Hmm,” said the fox. This is all very confusing. Would you mind telling me again? I think I have it all mixed up.” So the tiger told him again all that had happened. “It’s very odd,” said the fox. Could you show me how it happened? Maybe then I will understand.”
So they went over to the cage, and the tiger showed him the trap door. “Oh, my poor brain!” the fox said. “So you, sir, were outside the cage when the trap door came down?”
“No!” shouted the tiger. “You are such a fool! I was inside the cage, of course.”
“Of course!” cried the fox, pretending to be afraid. “I was in the cage. No. Oh dear, where is my brain? Let me see. A cage was walking along. No, that isn’t it either! Oh, never mind me. I will never understand.”
“Yes you will,” cried the tiger, in a rage. “Look. Here is the cage. I was in the cage. Do you understand?”
The fox trembled, and nodded. “But, please...” “Please what!” shouted the tiger. “Please...how did you get in?”
“How? Why, in the usual way, of course!”
“Oh dear, my head is spinning. Please don’t be angry, but what is the usual way?”
At this, the tiger lost his patience completely and jumped into the cage. “This way! Now do you understand how it was?”
“Perfectly,” grinned the fox, as he quickly shut the door. “And if you don’t mind my saying so, I think things will remain the way they were.
The Fight at Recess
At recess on a rainy day, the teacher told each student select a toy to play with. Then she stepped out of the room for a moment. Jean chose Legos. Bill and Mark played with blocks. Ann and Rachel wanted to color. Ken and Karen both wanted to play ball.
“I want the ball!” Ken said. “Give it to me!” “I had the ball first,” Karen said.
Ken and Karen fought over the ball. Ken got angry. Karen got angry. Soon the other students had forgotten what they were going to do. Everyone was watching Ken and Karen fight. The teacher heard the noise and ran back into the room.
“What is going on?” she asked.
Mark explained about the fight.
“There is no need to fight,” the teacher said. She took the ball away from the struggling children. “This toy should not even be here. This is not an inside toy!”
Then the problem was solved, because no one got to play with the ball!
“We should not have had a fight,” Ken told Karen. “Then we would be able to play with the ball!”
Shoveling Snow

I want a new toy. Mom says toys cost money. How can I get money? I look outside. There is a lot of snow!
Mom says I can earn money if I shovel our driveway. I do. It is fun! I do not have enough money for my new toy.
I look around. Mrs. Jen has a shovel. Can I shovel her driveway? She says yes! I almost have enough money for my new toy.
Mr. Tom has a shovel. Can I shovel his driveway? He says yes! I can get my new toy!
Marty the Clownfish

Marty was sad in the sea. As a clownfish, he felt like he should be funny. As a clownfish, he wasn’t funny. He wasn’t funny at all. He was very serious and didn't make anyone laugh.
He told jokes to the lionfish, but they didn’t laugh. He told jokes to the
dogfish, but they didn’t laugh either.
“I’m a clownfish and I should be funny,” Marty said aloud.
“You don’t have to be funny,” said a shark from nearby. “You are kind and helpful. You are friendly and smart.”
“But clowns make people laugh, so a clownfish should make fish laugh,” said Marty.
“The lionfish don’t act like lions. The dogfish don’t act like dogs,” the shark told him.
“Marty, just be yourself.”
So Marty did just that. He stopped trying to tell jokes. Soon, the fish all liked him. Soon, he had a lot of fish friends.
One day, Marty said, “I’m going to tell you all a joke.”
“Marty, no! No more jokes!”
Marty said, “Just kidding!”
Time for Everything

There’s a time to run and a time to walk.
There’s a time for silence and a time for talk.
There’s a time for work and a time for play.
There’s a time for sleep at the end of the day.
There’s a time for everything you do,
For children and for grown-ups too.
A time to stand up and a time to sit,
But see that the time and actions fit.
The terms "hurricane" and "typhoon" are regionally specific names for a strong "tropical cyclone". A tropical cyclone is the generic term for a non-frontal synoptic scale low-pressure system over tropical or sub-tropical waters with organized convection (i.e. thunderstorm activity) and definite cyclonic surface wind circulation (Holland 1993).

Tropical cyclones with maximum sustained surface winds of less than 17 m/s (34 kt, 39 mph) are called "tropical depressions". (This is not to be confused with the condition mid-latitude people get during a long, cold and grey winter wishing they could be closer to the equator ) Once the tropical cyclone reaches winds of at least 17 m/s they are typically called a "tropical storm" and assigned a name. If winds reach 33 m/s (64 kt, 74 mph)), then they are called: a "hurricane" (the North Atlantic Ocean, the Northeast Pacific Ocean east of the dateline, or the South Pacific Ocean east of 160E); a "typhoon" (the Northwest Pacific Ocean west of the dateline); a "severe tropical cyclone" (the Southwest Pacific Ocean west of 160E or Southeast Indian Ocean east of 90E); a "severe cyclonic storm" (the North Indian Ocean); and a "tropical cyclone" (the Southwest Indian Ocean) (Neumann 1993). 
Frogs
A baby frog is called a tadpole. Tadpoles have gills and live in water. When tadpoles grow into frogs, they have lungs. Frogs live around water. Frogs can hop. Frogs eat bugs. Frogs sound like this: Ribbit! Ribbit! Many frogs are green. In some places, frogs are very tiny and colorful.
Over 100,000 Germans migrated to the English colonies in North America. Most of them settled in Pennsylvania. Others settled in New York, Maryland, Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia. They formed the largest non-English-speaking community in colonial North America.

During the 1600s and 1700s, wars ravaged Germany. Marching armies trampled down fields of grain, stole cattle, and burned down farmsteads. In their wake, famines spread over the land. Taxes, levied to pay for the war, added to the people's plight.

Religious disputes also drove people to leave their homes. In Europe the rulers chose what church they wanted in their lands. Many pious Germans of strong convictions found this hard to bear. North America, especially Pennsylvania, offered them religious freedom.
Henry Ford
Henry Ford is famous for making cars easier for most people to buy. He did this by producing the cars using an assembly line.
Henry Ford was born in 1863 in Michigan. He had 4 siblings, and his family owned a farm. He worked on the farm when he was young, but he soon discovered that he loved taking things apart to see how they worked, then putting them back together again. He worked on watches a lot, and ended up helping many people fix their watches. In 1879, when he was 16 years old, he moved to Detroit to start working with machines, though he did come home and work on the farm a little, too.
Ford got married to Clara Bryant in 1888, and worked on a sawmill. He eventually became an engineer. Ford worked for the Edison Illuminating Company and even got to meet Thomas Edison! Edison encouraged him to keep working on his plans for his horseless carriage, powered by a motor. Ford’s gasoline-powered horseless carriage was called the Quadricycle.
He sold the Quadricycle and started his own company to continue his work making vehicles. He did not stay with the first company for very many years, but eventually started the Ford Motor Company. He spent many years developing cars, which were made only a few at a time.
Ford was not the first person to create a car, but he was the one who began to make them accessible to a lot of people in the United States. His “Model T” car, released in 1908, was easy to drive and to repair, which made many people want one. He needed to make a lot of cars very quickly. His company, Ford Motor Company, hired skilled workers to work on an assembly line. The car would move through the line, and each worker had a job along the line. One worker might put on the steering wheel, while at a different spot on the line, another worker put on tires. Every Model T was painted black. The company could make many cars at a time this way, which made them cheaper to produce.
In addition to using the assembly line to produce cars, Ford was also known for paying his workers fair wages. Henry Ford died in 1947, but his company is still around and making cars today.
Museum of Fine Arts
The Museum of Fine Arts, located in Boston Massachusetts, was founded in 1870.The current structure, the result of many additions and restructures of the original building, was completed in 1981.
The Museum started with the bulk of its collection coming from the Boston Athenaeum Art Gallery in the late 19th century. Guy Lowell was the architect that designed the current building. The building was built in stages as more and more capital was obtained to build it.
Today the museum is home to more than 25,000 square feet of exhibition space. The collection varies and includes Asian art, Egyptian Old Kingdom sculptures, and distinguishable collections of silver, decorative arts, furniture, drawings, costumes, and musical instruments.
One special note is the Museums extensive Impressionistic collection. Work from such artists as Degas, van Gogh, and Monet are included and available for viewing. The Museum maintains the largest on-line art catalog by one entity online. You can see their entire collection and new additions online.
Your heart is really a muscle. It's located a little to the left of the middle of your chest, and it's about the size of your fist. There are lots of muscles all over your body - in your arms, in your legs, in your back, even in your behind. But this muscle is special because of what it does - the heart sends blood around your body. The blood provides your body with the oxygen and nutrients it needs. It also carries away the waste that your body has to get rid of.

Your heart is sort of like a pump, or two pumps in one. The right side of your heart receives blood from the body and pumps it to the lungs. The left side of the heart does the exact opposite: it receives blood from the lungs and pumps it out to the body. By the time you're grown up, your heart will be beating (pumping) about 70 times a minute.

How does the heart beat? Before each beat, your heart fills with blood. Then it contracts to squirt the blood along. When something contracts, it squeezes tighter - try squeezing your hand into a fist. That's sort of like what your heart does so it can squirt out the blood. Your heart does this all day and all night, all the time. Every day, an adult heart pumps 2,000 gallons (7,500 liters) of recycled blood by filling and contracting. The heart is one tough worker! 
The Best Vacation Ever
Winter break was fast approaching, and all Scott wanted to do was go snowboarding. Unfortunately, Scott’s parents had different plans. They had booked a weeklong tropical cruise. Scott hated warm weather and asked if he could just stay at his best friend’s house so he could snowboard every day with his buddies at the local mountain. His parents didn’t want to hear anything of it. He kept debating them about the topic, but they would not change their minds. Family time was important to them, and it was tradition that they spend winter break together.
The week of the cruise arrived, and Scott continued to mumble his complaints as he and his family left their house to head south. Scott’s dad told him that he would only make the vacation worse for himself if he didn’t change his attitude and open his mind to a new experience. Scott still couldn’t stop thinking about all of the snow he was leaving behind.
When they arrived at the port to board the ship, Scott had a hard time admitting that he was actually impressed with the size of the ship. He had seen the brochures but seeing the ship in person was a whole different animal. Then he remembered that the brochure said something about a surfing pool. Maybe surfing would be somewhat like snowboarding. After all, it involved riding a board.
Scott climbed aboard the ship with his parents, and then they walked around to check everything out. He couldn’t believe how extravagant the accommodations were. The dining room looked like a royal hall; the game room had all of his favorite games and then some; the ship’s deck had several different swimming pools for different purposes . Then Scott saw the surfing pool. It was incredible. It wasn’t a big pool, but it had big waves, and the girl who was demonstrating how to ride the waves made it look like a ton of fun.
Scott asked his parents if he could go put his swim shorts on so that he could try surfing. They said, “Of course.” They wanted to put their swim suits on as well, and, much to Scott’s surprise, they wanted to try surfing too.
When Scott and his parents had their swim suits on, they headed back to the surfing pool. There was a line, but it wasn’t too long. Scott’s dad went first and only lasted about five seconds before he wiped out. Then it was his mom’s turn. She actually made it longer than his dad did. When it was Scott’s turn, he was excited and nervous. He hopped on the board and took a stance similar to his snowboarding stance. Then the waves started. It felt similar to snowboarding but different at the same time. On his first ride, Scott rode for almost 30 seconds before wiping out. He was hooked though.
A lot of the passengers tried surfing the first day of the cruise, but only eight people or so really took to it, so for the remainder of the cruise the lines weren’t very long, and Scott got to know the regulars quite well.
By the time the weeklong cruise was over, Scott had new friends he planned to keep in touch with, a new hobby, and great memories. He apologized to his parents for initial moaning and groaning, and told them it was his best vacation ever.
It was December. Carol had seen nine Christmas trees lighted on her birthdays, one after another; nine times she had assisted in the holiday festivities of the household, though in her babyhood her share of the gayeties was somewhat limited.
For five years, certainly, she had hidden presents for Mama and Papa in their own bureau drawers, and harbored a number of secrets sufficiently large to burst a baby's brain, had it not been for the relief gained by whispering them all to Mama, at night, when she was in her crib, a proceeding which did not in the least lessen the value of a secret in her innocent mind.
For five years she had heard "'Twas the night before Christmas," and hung up a scarlet stocking many sizes too large for her, and pinned a sprig of holly on her little white night gown, to show Santa Claus that she was a "truly" Christmas child, and dreamed of fur-coated saints and toy-packs and reindeer, and wished everybody a "Merry Christmas" before it was light in the morning, and lent every one of her new toys to the neighbors' children before noon, and eaten turkey and plum pudding, and gone to bed at night in a trance of happiness at the day's pleasures.
Fossil Mystery
“What is that?”
“It looks like a fossil.” “It looks part-human.” “It can’t be...”
The archeologists all started talking at once. I listened to snippets from each of their conversations. The words “animal” and “human” were argued about, with half of us thinking it looked like one while the other half was thinking it looked like the other.
As the chatter started to dwindle, I spoke. “What if it’s neither human nor animal? What if it’s something we haven’t discovered yet? Maybe even something from out of our world...”
There was silence as my colleagues digested what I was saying. Frank said, “I think you might be right. It’s not a dinosaur or any other
animal we’ve encountered. It’s not a human. What else could it be?”
The other scientists started talking with one another again. They were talking about tests they could run, and about species of animals they could look up to compare this fossil to. They began to head back to their laptops to begin researching.
Frank and I stayed behind. We continued to examine the fossil. It was hard to describe the creature that was fossilized. It was smaller than a human, but looked like it would have stood on two legs instead of four. Its head was large and it had 6 fingers on each hand, and 8 toes on each foot.
“Do you think it could have been a human from long ago?” Frank asked.
“Maybe, but I’ve never seen one with that many fingers and toes,” I answered. “It could be a new animal species. Maybe it just looks like it would have stood on two legs, but it only looks like that because of the way it was fossilized. I really don’t know.”
Frank and I headed back to our rooms to think it over and get some sleep.
The next morning, I rushed straight to the fossil. There were already other archaeologists there, with confused looks on their faces. As I headed closer, I began to see why. The fossil was different. It had changed overnight! Now it looked like a small bear.
“What happened?” I asked. No one had an answer. None of us could understand how a fossil we had dug up yesterday had just changed. We spent time examining it again. We took pictures and videos of it. We searched to see if anyone had ever come across a changing fossil. No one found anything that was helpful in solving our mystery. What kind of fossil was this?
When night fell, we set up a rotation to make sure two of us were with the fossil at all times. We wanted to make sure that someone wasn’t playing a prank on us by switching fossils somehow. All was quiet for my watch, which was in the middle of the night.
In the morning, I went by the fossil to again find my colleagues puzzling over the fossil. It had changed again! No one had seen or heard anything on their watch.
How and why did it keep changing? To this day, no one has found the answer to the mystery, but it is very interesting to see the creatures the fossil dreams up!
Jump Around
“Whee!” I could hear kids cheering all around me. It was Nicky’s birthday party and we were all having fun in the bounce house. We were jumping up as high as we could, and falling down to let the soft ground catch us. I loved jumping in bounce houses! I wish I could have one of these in my backyard, I thought.
I decided to look up the price of a bounce house when I got home. It was too expensive for me. Maybe if all of my friends and I put our money together, we could buy it! I found them playing outside and asked.
Jake said, “That would be awesome!” “Yeah, I’m in,” replied Kate.
“I’ll see how much money I have at home,” said Janie.
The next day, we all gathered to see how much money we had. After counting it, we found out we had enough! I talked to my parents about my idea.
“That would be a lot of fun for you and your friends. We do have space in our backyard, but there are some things that I don’t think you’ve considered. We would have to use our electricity to blow it up every time someone wanted to use it. That would cost more money, and it would cost money to fix it if it ever got a hole in it or anything. Are you going to pay for the electricity and repairs yourself?” Dad asked.
“You’re right, I didn’t think about that...” I replied. “I could ask everyone to pay a little bit every time they use it, I guess.”
“That could work. But do you all have enough money for that?” asked Mom. “I’m not sure...” I said.
“Maybe something besides a bounce house would work better, then. You like the bounce house because of how fun it is to jump high and not have to land on your feet, right? What about a big trampoline?” Mom suggested.
“That’s a great idea!” I exclaimed.
“Great! Before we agree to something like that, that all your friends in the neighborhood could use, we need to make sure everyone will be safe. That means we need to see if there is extra safety equipment we could buy for the trampoline, and we need to create rules. Does that make sense?” Dad asked.
“Yes,” I said. “I’ll talk to my friends tomorrow to make sure we all agree on the rules, then we’ll all have our parents look the rules over to see if there’s anything we missed.”
“Perfect!”
The next day, we all sat down and developed, or came up with, rules. We decided that we should not crash into each other, we should not jump off the trampoline, and we should not land on our heads or necks.
Our parents all looked over the rules, and added one more: we needed an adult to be outside with us. That seemed fair to us, so we pooled our money together and got a trampoline!
The rainforest contains more than half of Earth's plant and animal species, even though rain forests cover only about 6% of the earth's surface. The average humidity in the rainforest is high, ranging from 77% to 88%. The average temperature is at least 75 to 86 degrees.

Many of the plants and foods in your home originated in the rainforests. Common house plants, such as bromeliads, African violets, periwinkle and the Christmas cactus, began in the rain forest.

About one-fourth of all the medicines we use come from rainforest plants. Curare, from a tropical vine, is used as an anesthetic and to relax muscles for surgery. Quinine, from the cinchona tree, is used to treat malaria. The rosy periwinkle contains an anti-leukemia drug; a person with lymphocytic leukemia has a 99% chance that the disease will go into remission because of the rosy periwinkle. More than 1,400 varieties of tropical plants are thought to be potential cures for cancer.
The Rock Cycle
Rock may seem to last forever, but it is actually always
changing. It is always in one of the stages of the rock cycle. This series of events in the rock cycle takes thousands of years. But the cycle is always in motion.
The pressure inside the earth produces enough heat to melt the rock there. This melted rock, or magma, seeps up into the top crust of the earth, or it erupts from volcanoes. In the earth’s crust, and around the volcanoes, the magma cools into solid rock. This kind of rock is called igneous rock.
Over time, igneous rock breaks down into smaller and smaller pieces. This process, called weathering, produces soil, or sediment.
Water and wind carry the bits of soil into piles called sediment beds. This transportation of the soil to the sediment beds is called erosion. As the sediment is pressed down by more and more sediment on top, the lower levels turn into sedimentary rock.
As more and more layers of sedimentary rock are formed, the layers on the bottom are pushed down deeper. They grow hot from the pressure. Finally, they are heated into magma, and the cycle is complete—and ready to begin again.
Samuel F. B. Morse conceived of an electromagnetic telegraph in 1832 and constructed an experimental version in 1835. He did not construct a truly practical system until 1844, when he built a line from Baltimore to Washington, D.C.

The current model incorporates basic features of the 1844 receiver. It accompanied an application for a patent, granted in 1849, in which he described a method for marking dots and dashes on paper.

Within ten years after the first telegraph line opened, 23,000 miles of wire crisscrossed the country. The invention profoundly affected the development of the West, made railroad travel safer, and allowed businessmen to conduct their operations more profitably. 
Mom
Frank woke up. It is Mom’s birthday! Frank wants to give Mom a gift. I will pick Mom some flowers, Frank says. He goes outside. He picks two yellow flowers. He goes inside.
“Happy birthday Mom!” Frank says. Mom is very happy.
The New Principal

Macy and her family had a great time at the school fair. There were games, cotton candy, and even a dunk tank.
The fair had prizes, and Macy won the best prize. She got to be the principal for a day!
On Monday morning, Macy’s principal let her sit in the principal’s chair at her big desk. Macy spun around on the chair. This was fun already.
Next, she made her first announcement. All students could chew gum in class!
Macy walked around the school. She stopped in to play with the kindergarten students. She listened to a story in grade one. There were kids in the gym playing dodgeball, so she joined their game. The morning flew by!
When it was time for recess, Macy made her next big announcement. She told everyone that recess would be an extra ten minutes! She could hear all the kids cheering.
In the afternoon, Macy played on the principal’s computer. She learned how to use the photocopier. She sat at the big desk and drew pictures.
At the end of the day, Macy made her last announcement. She was sure this one would make all the kids happy.
“Attention students! This is your principal, Macy. I am happy to tell you that there will be no homework for anyone today!”
Cheering and laughter came from the classrooms. Being the principal was so much fun!
One of Aesop’s Fables

An old cat wanted to catch all the mice in the barn.
One day, the mice met to talk about the great harm that cat was doing to them.
Each mouse tried to think of a plan by which to keep out of the cat’s way.
“Do as I say,” said an old gray mouse that was thought to be very wise. “Do as I say. Hang a bell on the cat's neck. Then, when we hear it ring, we will know that she is coming and can scamper out of her way.”
“Good! good!” said all the other mice as one ran to get the bell. “Now which of you will hang this bell on the cat's neck?” said the old gray mouse.
“Not I! not I!” said all the mice together. And they scampered away to their holes.
The Golden Fish Acts Wisely

Upon a certain island in the middle of the sea lived a fisherman and his wife. They were so poor they often went without bread when the fishing did not go well.
One day the man caught a small golden fish who begged to be let go. Because the man did let him go, the little fish promised that he would come back if the fisherman ever needed help. The man said that he and his wife had no food, and when the man returned home there was a nice meal on the table. But the fisherman’s wife was greedy. After she ate the nice meal, she went to bed planning what they should demand from the golden fish next.
She woke up early the next morning and shook her husband awake. “Wake up, you lazy man! Go and tell your fish that I need a new washtub!”
So he went and called to the golden fish again, and when he returned home there was a beautiful new washtub in the yard.
Each day the fisherman’s wife had a new demand. And each one was granted. The fisherman’s wife got a big new house, beautiful new clothes, servants to do her work, and a horse-drawn carriage to ride in. But the fisherman did not enjoy the new things, and he was ashamed of his greedy wife. She was rude to the servants, and she was too busy thinking up new demands to speak to her husband. Once again, she demanded that he call the golden fish. She wanted to be Queen of the Waters.
“Make your wife Queen of the Waters?” exclaimed the golden fish. That is the last thing I should do. She is unfit to rule. She cannot even rule herself. I shall make her a poor woman again. Goodbye! You will see me no more.”
With great sorrow and dread, the fisherman went home to tell his wife the news. To his surprise, the big house had been transformed into their little old cabin, and his wife was clothed in rags. Life was much easier for the fisherman after that. His wife had learned the results of greed. She planted a little garden, to provide food when the fishing did not go well.
Sometimes when the fisherman drew in his line, the sun glinted on the scales of his catch, and he had a moment’s hope of seeing his little friend again. But that was never to come to pass.
Harvey’s Day
Harvey was wide awake with the first light of the sun over the water. In fact, Harvey
Penguin gets to stay up as late as he wants at night. That’s because penguins at sea only take short, light naps when they are tired. If Harvey fell sound asleep, a predator like a shark, a seal or even a huge orca whale could sneak up on Harvey.
Harvey was planning on having a good day swimming in the waters of the cold Southern Ocean. The Southern Ocean surrounds the frozen continent of Antarctica. Harvey spends most of his days in the water. His body is designed for swimming all day long.
Harvey is an unusual bird because he cannot fly. Instead of flying wings, his wings look like flippers. His wings help him to swim easily. Harvey doesn’t have legs like other birds either. Some birds have short legs so they can reach food on the ground. Lots of birds have long legs so they can wade in the water looking for fish. Harvey has very short legs that make him waddle when he walks on land.
It was easy for Harvey to find his breakfast, lunch and dinner. The Southern Ocean is full of krill, tiny sea creatures that are Harvey’s favorite food. Harvey was planning on having a good day swimming with his buddies while keeping an eye out for predators.
Dog and Donkey
Dog and Donkey sat in the barnyard, enjoying the morning sun. “The
Farmer likes me best,” said Dog, thinking to start some fun.
“Nay,” said Donkey. “You know I am his favorite.”
“Well, here he comes now,” said Dog. “We will just see about that.” When the Farmer came into the barnyard, Dog began to dance
around, and lick the Farmer’s hand. The Farmer laughed, and sat down on the bench so Dog could sit on his lap. The Farmer gave Dog a nice biscuit. Seeing this, Donkey hopped up and started a prancing imitation of Dog. He put his front feet up on the Farmer’s shoulders, and tried to get up into his lap. The Farmer pushed Donkey away, and gave him a scolding. And he didn’t give Donkey the apple he had brought in his pocket for him.
Coconuts!
Many animals live on the island. All of the animals like the coconuts. The monkeys play with the coconuts. The monkeys and the elephants both break the husks and eat its sweet meat. The parrots perch on the coconuts. The coconut crabs suck the coconuts sweet milk. They are all nuts for coconuts!
Survival in the Wild
Plants and animals have the hard job of surviving in a very wild world. How do they do it? There are many ways plants and animals have adapted in order to survive.
Camouflage is one way animals adapt to survive. For some animals, this means that their fur, scales, or skin are a similar color to the land around them. Deer, for example, have brown fur that blends in with the trees, so it’s harder for predators to see them. This saves them from becoming prey to a larger animal. Some animals can actually change colors to match their environment. Many people think of chameleons when they think of this type of camouflage, but rabbits are a great example as well. Some rabbits’ fur will change colors depending on the season. Their fur might be brown in the spring, summer, and fall to match the trees, but the brown fur will fall out and white fur will grow in the winter to blend in with the snow. This way the rabbit is safer from predators year-round.
Some insects, instead of blending in with their environment, look like something else that will deter animals from eating them. A walking stick looks just like a stick so that predators will pass it by without noticing it. Katydids mimic leaves. Some moths and butterflies have designs on their wings that make them look like snakes or owls, to scare away their predators.
For some plants, however, they don’t want to blend in; they want to stand out to survive! Many plants grow flowers with colorful petals to attract bees. The bees help pollinate the flowers so that they can produce new flowers. Instead of hiding, some plants and animals develop structures that aim to hurt anything that tries to hurt them. Some plants develop thorns so that animals will not eat them. Some animals have extremely sharp teeth and claws so they can fight off other animals. Porcupines and hedgehogs even have spikes, called quills or spines, covering their backs so animals won’t want to eat them!
There are many ways plants and animals have adapted to survive in the wild. Do you know of any other ways?
How to Skateboard
Skateboarding is exhilarating - you can move quickly and fly through the air! Before you can do amazing tricks in the air, though, you need to learn the basics of skateboarding, and be prepared for a lot of trial and error.
The first thing you need to do is get a skateboard. It’s probably best to talk with a skateboarder to find a store that sells good quality skateboards, not just toys. Many skateboarders create their own “setup,” but for your first board, someone at a skate shop should be able to help you. A helmet, elbow pads, knee pads, and wrist guards are important to get, as well. It is better to wear all of those than to hurt yourself! Once you are ready to learn tricks, you might also need to buy some skate shoes.
Then you’ll need to find a place to skateboard. An empty parking lot (with a safe adult around) or your driveway are good places to start. Skate parks are popping up in many towns now, so try to find one near you! Wherever you go, though, make sure it’s a place where skateboarding is allowed.
There are some basic movements you’ll need to learn in order to skateboard. The first movement is to find your stance. Most skateboarders put their left foot towards the front of the board and use their right foot to push themselves. If you’re left-handed, you might want to try standing in a “goofy” stance, with your right foot towards the front of the board and using your left foot to push. Make sure your foot isn’t all the
way at the front of the board, or it will tip forward.
Next, you’ll want to practice how to push off the ground and glide along on the board. Make sure most of your weight is over your front foot so that you can balance as your back foot pushes. Push off of your back foot and balance as the board moves. Balancing on the board as it’s moving might take some time to get used to, so make sure you’re comfortable balancing before you move on!
Once you get used to balancing with your weight over your front foot, you can practice shifting your weight while you’re on the moving skateboard. After you push off, practice putting your back foot on the board and shifting your weight so that you have equal weight in each foot. Then practice shifting your weight back over your front foot so that you can push with your back foot again.
Braking is another important movement. You use your back foot to brake, just like you use it to push. Let the bottom of your back foot drag along the ground to slowly bring you to a stop. Make sure you are moving slowly at first so that you get better at judging how much force you need to put on your back foot to brake.
Last, practice how to get off the board. Once your board is stopped, with your back foot on the ground, transfer your weight to your back foot and take your front foot off the board. Ta-da! You took your first ride on a skateboard! Keep practicing all of these basic movements slowly, until you’re very comfortable doing them. Then, try them at a faster speed. Once you’re confident in these basic moves, then you can start to learn cool tricks! Make sure that you’re always wearing your protective gear, and that there is an adult nearby in case you fall. Happy skateboarding!
Monty held the python up to the spotlight. The python flicked his tongue. Monty smiled then he lowered the python into the rope vase. He slowly uncoiled the python's lengthy body into the large container, and then he covered the rope vase. The crowd cheered. Monty did a dramatic pose in the middle of the stage. Then he put his hand in the rope vase and pulled out three foam balls. The crowd gasped.
The dew on the grass made my running shoes damp. It didn't bother me. The sound of my feet hitting the street formed a rhythm, a steady pattern of light thumps. I timed my breathing with the rhythm. These sounds filled my head. I thought of nothing other than the next step and keeping my tempo. I soared over the sidewalks like concrete clouds.
Katie Clean invited Messy Missy to her house to work on their biology project, but Katie Clean had no idea what a visit from Messy Missy entailed. First of all, it was raining and Messy Missy neither bothered to take her boots off nor thoroughly wiped them on the doormat. Then Messy Missy ate a bag of hot chips on Katie Clean’s white bedspread without asking, and Messy Missy is a sloppy eater, so hot chip powder got all over the bedspread. Katie Clean tried to be polite and ignore Messy Missy’s sloppy behavior, but then Messy Missy threw her chip wrapper on the floor. Offended, Katie Clean pretended that she was sick and asked Messy Missy to leave. The next day Katie Clean asked the teacher if she could work by herself. After explaining her situation, the teacher allowed Katie to work alone. Messy Missy would have finished the assignment by herself, but she spilled grape soda all over her assignment.
Kalil examined the math book. It had been badly treated. The cover was torn and it appeared to be missing some pages. Still, Kalil knew that looks were less important than utility. He had learned that lesson long ago. "Thanks, Mr. Thompson!" he said with gratitude. Mr. Thompson looked up from his desk and said, "Sorry we don't have new books, Kalil, but there's still plenty of good math left in that book." Mr. Thompson smiled. Kalil felt appreciative.
It is midnight when you get the call. A crackly voice shouts over your radio. "Officer down! Backup requested." All of the other things that you were thinking have left your mind. Your head is thumping. You arrive at the scene and get out of the cruiser. The air is filled with the syncopated sounds of gunfire. You draw your own weapon and crouch behind your squad car. You have no thoughts in your head. The only thing guiding you is your training.
We were a tightly knit unit. When one of us ate, all of us ate, and we all ate the same thing: shrubs and plants. Sure, Uncle Sam provided us with C-Rations, but those things produced a smell that could be detected from fifty-yards away, more if the wind was blowing. So even though it took longer to make our meals the way that the natives did, we had too. It was a matter of survival.
Mr. Davis had his head on his desk. Several children were chasing each other around the classroom. Others were playing on their cell phones. Everyone was chatting loudly, except Mr. Davis. He was groaning with his head on his desk. Tabitha came to him and asked, "Are you ok, Mr. Davis?" Mr. Davis raised his head weakly and replied, "No, Tabitha, I am afraid that I am ill." Tabitha smiled and ran back to her group of friends. "I told you he was sick!" she shouted.
"There's no way that I'm getting on that," said Latrice, gesturing toward the unicorn. Latrice had never ridden a unicorn. She had always been too afraid that she might fall from the sky or be burned up in a rainbow or something. Cordelia put a hand on Latrice's shoulder and said, "When the Gromlins come, you're going to want to ride one. You may as well learn now without the pressure of Gromlins." Latrice considered the wisdom of this statement and decided that Cordelia was right.
"Wow, look at his costume," said Annie. "He's dressed up like an electric jellyfish." She observed the flashing lights with genuine admiration. Adrianna looked at the costume and scoffed. Secretly, she envied the detail and craftsmanship that went into the jellyfish costume, but she would never let on to Annie. “What kind of loser goes walking around like a Christmas tree?” Adrianna said. Annie did not agree, but did not want to be disagreeable. “Yeah... what kind?” The ladies walked by another house. Annie did not like this. It seemed like Adrianna more interested in criticizing others than in trick-or- treating. Annie adjusted the headband to her costume. Adrianna was not wearing a costume.

General Brosnan surveyed the enemy forces and gasped at their sheer numbers. He knew that his men were better fighters, every last one of them, but were they that much better? He wanted a second opinion. "Major Miller!" he called to his subordinate, "Take a look at " Major Miller gazed at the throng with concern and said, "Look at all those ugly mugs." Major Miller was also quite surprised by the enemy's numbers, but he felt that today would be as good of a day as any to die.
Marie Curie not only the first woman to have won a Nobel Prize, she is also the only person to win a Nobel Prize in two different sciences. Most notably, however, Marie Curie discovered radiation. She was also the first person to use radiation to treat tumors. Curie experimented extensively with radioactivity during her scientific career. Unfortunately the damaging effects of radiation were not known then. Her exposure to radiation most likely was the cause of her blindness and early death. Still today her scientific papers are considered too dangerous to handle without protective equipment. These documents are stored in lead-lined boxes. Even her cookbook is radioactive. She must have made some really hot food in her lifetime.
Cindy got her test back and started crying immediately. It was a C. Her mother would never stand for Cs. She felt disappointed. She knew that she would be in big trouble. Then Jen got her test back. Jen cheered. She got a C. Her mother would be so proud. Jen had studied hard for the test and she was satisfied with the results. She felt proud.
Zander looked at the flashing lights and knobs on the control panel of the spaceship. He couldn't make sense of it. It was nothing like the ships that he had flown on his home world. He turned to Pixie and said, "Uh, I'm not sure what to do here." Pixie scowled at him and said, "Zander, we need you. Make this thing fly. Make it fly us home." Zander felt embarrassed and afraid, but he didn't want to let Pixie down. Then he thought of something and said, "Maybe the colors of the controls are the same even though the layout is different." Pixie smiled warmly.
The birds were chirping and the sun was shining. Kevin and Juno were sitting on a park bench together. Neither of them was smiling. After a long period of silence, Kevin said, "This isn't going to work. I mean, you're a dog person and I'm a cat person." Juno nodded. A tear rolled down her face. Kevin went on, "If we got married and bought a house, what kind of pet would we get? Some kind of cat-dog? Somebody's going to be unhappy." Juno began sobbing and said, "Ok, let's just end it now. Have fun with your slobbery dogs." She jumped off the bench and ran into the woods.
Left Out
Trish was playing basketball with her brother outside when she saw a car pull up in Josie’s driveway. Josie jumped out of the car, and Trish could hear a lot of voices laughing and saying goodbye to Josie. Trish stopped dribbling the basketball and watched as the car drove away and Josie skipped to her front door. Trish could feel her body start to get uncomfortably warm, and her eyes started to water.
“Hey, what’s wrong?” Daniel asked.
“Nothing. I don’t want to play anymore.” Trish stormed inside and slammed the door. She heard the door open again behind her, but she didn’t turn around and went straight to her room. Trish could hear Daniel talking to her mom downstairs, but she didn’t want to talk to anyone. How could Josie do that do me? Trish thought. I thought we were friends.
She heard a knock on the door, but ignored it. Her mom called though the door, “Trish, are you OK?” Trish ignored it and put her pillow over her head like earmuffs. “I’ll be downstairs if you want to talk later. It’s a good choice to calm yourself down first.”
Eventually Trish calmed down and went to talk with her mom. Her mom always had some good ideas to help her.
“What’s going on, Trish?” Mom asked when Trish appeared in the living room. Trish took a seat.
“Josie went somewhere with our friends and she didn’t invite me,” Trish said. “Why wouldn’t she invite me? That’s not very nice. I thought we were friends.”
“Oh, honey, I’m sorry. I’d be pretty upset too if I felt left out. Maybe Josie knew that you wouldn’t like what they were going to do,” Mom suggested.
“Maybe...” Trish didn’t sound convinced.
“Why don’t you talk with Josie about it at school on Monday?” Mom said. “I don’t want to talk to her, I’m mad! I’m just going to ignore her.”
“Well... sometimes ignoring another person is a good choice, but I don’t think this is the right time for that solution. If you ignore her, how are you ever going to solve the problem? Not talking about it is just going to make it worse, and might mean you could lose Josie as a friend,” replied Mom.
“I still want Josie to be my friend, but talking about it is uncomfortable. I just want her to know what’s wrong and say she’s sorry.”
“That might happen, but it might not. Josie might not realize that she did something wrong, so then she’ll just get mad at you for ignoring her. I really think talking to her about how you feel is the best way to solve the problem.”
“OK, Mom, I’ll talk to her at school. Thanks,” Trish said.
And guess what? Trish’s mom was right! Josie knew Trish didn’t like snakes, and she and the other girls had gone to the zoo to see the new snake exhibit. Trish was glad she’d talked to Josie to solve the problem.
Mouse Madness
The tunnel was dark, but Marty knew his way through it. He used his powerful nose to find the passage out. It smelled like his favorite food: cheese!
When he got to the edge of the passage, Marty paused. His mother had lectured him enough about dashing into the open without looking. It was dangerous. A zoo patron could see him and start screaming. Then zookeepers might bring in exterminators to shoo them out of their homes. There could be hawks around, ready to grab them. Marty was not ready to be devoured by a hungry hawk. He had to be careful.
He watched. He waited. Then slowly, carefully, silently he crept out a little further. He could see the nachos and cheese under the bench, where someone had carelessly left it. “Jackpot!” he thought. It must be the lunch rush now, because there were not many people over by the bird exhibit. He waited until the few guests turned away, and he ran to the nachos.
They smelled delicious. He would have liked to bring some back to his family, but they were too big for a mouse to carry. Marty took a bite. Mmmmmm! Just as he was about to take another bite, he saw a movement from the corner of his eye. Oh no! A hawk!
Marty ran as fast as he could back to the tunnel. It wasn’t far, and he was desperately hoping that the hawk hadn’t seen him when it landed. He was almost there, when he was suddenly lifted off the ground. Marty was terrified. His mother had warned him about
this all of his life. He should have been more aware, instead of focused on the delicious nachos and cheese. Up they went, higher and higher. The view of the zoo was fantastic, but Marty was too scared to appreciate it. They were circling in the air, and Marty knew he had to do something, or he was going to be the hawk’s lunch!
Think, think, THINK! He said to himself. The hawk’s talons were surrounding him, but he had an idea. There was one talon close to his face, so he took a deep breath, and bit the hawk! The hawk swerved, but didn’t let go. Marty did it again, clenching his little mouse jaws as hard as he possibly could!
Then, he was falling. Marty didn’t even have a chance to think about anything but the feeling of falling, until, THUMP! He bounced off an umbrella. THUMP! He bounced off another one, and went flying into the bushes. He landed softly in the dirt. For awhile, Marty stayed still. He could not believe that he was still alive. He didn’t want to move, in case the hawk came back. Finally, his breathing started to slow. He was sore from hitting the ground, but he didn’t feel seriously hurt. Marty stood up, and made his way to the closest tunnel. He was ready to go home. That was enough of an adventure for one day!
A Day at the Beach
Linda’s mother took her to the beach. Linda wore a big hat to keep the sun off of her face. She brought her pail and her shovel. Linda walked along the beach and collected shells. She watched the seagulls fishing. She watched ships sail along the horizon. It was a very nice day.
In the Lily Pond
Tina the Tadpole was living happily in the lily pond. She was a bullfrog tadpole and was already one year old. Bullfrog tadpoles must be two or three years old before they change from a tadpole into a young bullfrog.
Tina was good at hiding near the muddy bottom of the pond. With her brown color and special spots she blended with the muddy bottom. When she was near the bottom, predators could not find her.
A snapping turtle is one of the tadpole’s predators. Tina was able to hide from snapping turtles.
Dragonfly nymphs are another tadpole predator. A dragonfly nymph is like a tadpole and it lives in the pond too. A dragonfly nymph changes into an adult dragonfly insect that flies away. A dragonfly never lives under the water any more.
When Tina grows into a bullfrog it will be her turn to be the predator. Adult bullfrogs reach out with their tongues and will eat a dragonfly that hovers near the surface of the pond.
The next spring Tina was old enough to turn into a young bullfrog. She still liked living in the lily pond. She will probably live in the lily pond the rest of her life. Some day she will lay her own eggs that will hatch into tadpoles.
Cat and Fox
Cat was sitting in the shade of a tree cleaning her paws when a fox came along. Fox sat down and started bragging to Cat about his many clever ways of escaping from Farmer Brown’s big dog. "I have a whole bag of tricks," he said, "which contains a hundred ways of escaping that beast."
"I have only one," said Cat. "But I can usually manage with that." Just at that moment they heard Farmer Brown’s big dog barking. It sounded like he was coming their way, and Cat quickly ran up the tree and hid herself in the branches. "This is my plan," said the Cat. "What are you going to do?"
Fox thought first of one plan, then another, and while he was debating the dog came closer and closer. When the dog same in sight, Fox took off running for dear life, while Cat continued to clean her paws in safety.
The Golden Fish Keeps a Promise
Upon a certain island in the middle of the sea lived a fisherman and his wife. They were so poor they often went without bread when the fishing did not go well.
One day when the man had been fishing for many hours without any luck, he hooked a small golden fish with eyes as bright as diamonds.
“Let me go, kind fisherman,” the little creature cried. “I would not even make a single mouthful for your dinner.”
The man was so moved by the beauty of the golden fish that he let him go. Before he swam away, the fish promised that he would come back if the fisherman ever needed help.
The fisherman laughed, for he could not think how a little fish could help him, other than providing a bit of food. He went home and told his wife about his adventure.
“What!” she cried. “You let him go? We have not a scrap of food in the house, and I suppose that now we must starve.”
The fisherman’s wife continued to fuss at him until, finally, he decided to go and put the little fish to the test. He hurried down to the seashore, and stood at the edge of the waves.
“Golden Fish, Golden Fish! Come and help me, please,” he called. The last word was not out of his mouth when the little fish popped its head up out of the water.
“You see I have kept my promise,” said the fish. “How can I help you, my friend?” And when the fisherman made his request, the fish simply said, “Don’t worry about that. There will be plenty of food when you get home.”
And strangely enough, when the fisherman arrived home, there was a basket of bread on the table, and cheese and fruit as well.
Seven Little Mice

Little Mouse Sunday found a great, big bun.
Little Mouse Monday wished that he had one.
Little Mouse Tuesday was fat enough without.
Little Mouse Wednesday sat down to sulk and pout.
Said Little Mouse Thursday, “I’ll get one for myself!”
Said Little Mouse Friday, “There’s another on the shelf.”
Little Mouse Saturday began to beg and squeak.
“Come on!” said all the seven, “we’ve enough to last a week!”
Money is Funny

Mary saw her mom spend money on groceries. She saw her dad spend money on new tools. That all seemed funny to Mary.
“Money is just green paper,” Mary thought. “Why do people give my parents groceries and tools for green paper?”
Mary took out her big box of crayons. She colored some paper green. She took her green paper to the toy store in town.
“I want to buy a toy,” Mary declared. “Here is some green paper.”
The lady at the store said “Sorry. That's not real money. It is just green paper.”
Mary asked her dad about money. He said that money was a special type of green paper. He also said you have to go to work to earn money. That is the only green paper you can spend.
“Can I work and earn some money?” Mary asked.
“Yes,” said her dad. “Wash the car, and I will pay you.”
Mary washed the car and got paid six dollars. She went back to the store and bought a toy.
Now she knows why her mom and dad work for money.
The Fair
It is summer. It is time for the county fair! Penny wants to go to the fair. She wants to see the pigs. She wants to see the cows. She wants to see the horses. She wants to eat a hot dog. She wants to go on the rides. What fun!
Magnetism and electricity are closely related phenomena. Electric charge is a fundamental property of matter. Matter is made up of electrons, neutrons, and protons. Electrons have a negative electric charge, while protons have a positive electric charge; neutrons have no electric charge. These tiny particles are the building blocks of atoms. An atom has a net positive electric charge when it loses one of its electrons, and a net negative electric charge when it gains an extra electron. On the other hand, magnetic charges do not exist - Magnetic fields are generated solely by moving electric charges.

An example of the relationship between electricity and magnetism is the motor. In a motor, a voltage is applied across the terminals of a coil of wire. The voltage causes the electrons in the wire to move, which in turn generates a current. This current results in a magnetic field, which interacts with permanent magnets attached to the core of the motor, causing it to move.

Perhaps the most significant relationship between electricity and magnetism is light, which is known to physicists as an electromagnetic wave. Light waves are oscillating patterns of electric and magnetic fields, propagating through space at the speed of light (3x108 meters/second).

Electric and Magnetic phenomena are intricately described by a collection of physical laws, known as Maxwell's equations. Fully understanding these complex equations require a thorough knowledge of calculus and differential equations. For more information, take a course in electromagnetic theory from your local university.
The Water Cycle
You can’t see it, but the water cycle is always in motion on
the earth. This series of events goes round and round, again and again, providing clean, fresh water for the land and seas. As water goes through this cycle, it is sometimes solid ice, sometimes liquid water, and sometimes a gas called water vapor.
The energy that drives the water cycle is heat. When heat is added to ice, the ice melts into water. When heat is added to water, it evaporates, turning from liquid into gas. When heat is taken away from water vapor, it condenses, turning from gas into liquid. When heat is taken away from water, it freezes, turning from liquid to solid.
The heat from the sun warms the water in oceans and rivers. The water changes into water vapor that rises into the air. High above the earth, the water vapor cools and becomes tiny particles of water that create clouds. As the clouds gather more and more particles of water, the water falls as rain or snow, which are two forms of precipitation. This precipitation is absorbed in the ground or is added to the water in oceans, lakes, and rivers. The cycle is always, constantly, in process, everywhere in the world.
How to Make Animations
It’s Saturday morning. You wake up, grab a bowl of cereal, and relax in front of the TV watching cartoons. Have you ever wondered how those animated cartoons you enjoy are made?
The process begins with an idea. Artists make sketches and put them up on a storyboard, to get an outline of the story. Then writers create the script, and actors record the voices. The sound needs to be recorded before the real animations, so that the artists can draw the cartoons to match up with the actors’ voices. A sound engineer or a computer program analyzes all the sounds the voices make, what mouth positions match each sound, and tells the artists how many different drawings to make. The artists need to draw many pictures to show how the characters’ mouths move while they’re talking, and how their bodies move.
There are usually about 12 to 24 drawings for every second of a cartoon! That means, for a 20 minute cartoon, artists have to make around 26,000 drawings - wow! When characters are moving or speaking quickly, the artist will need more drawings. If the characters are moving slowly, they won’t need as many drawings. Sometimes artists draw the background just once, then use transparent sheets to draw the characters. This saves the artists some time.
Once they have all of the drawings to match the sound, they use computers to string all of the images together. When the computer scrolls through all of the images quickly, it looks like the characters are moving. The sound is recorded and played with the string of
images. The production team looks very carefully at the cartoon to make sure
all the sounds match up the right way, so the artists sometimes may need to add extra pictures or change some pictures to make sure it flows together smoothly.
Some animations are not drawn on paper, but are made using clay. When artists want to use clay for animations, they use a technique called stop motion. These artists still make a storyboard and the soundtrack, but instead of drawing all of the individual pictures, they make clay characters. They place the clay characters in front of a camera, snap a picture, and then move the character a little bit. They snap another picture, maneuver the character again, and so on, and so forth. When the pictures are uploaded onto a computer, the computer can string them together and scroll through them quickly, which makes it look like the clay characters are moving on their own. The artists move the characters only a little bit, so when the pictures are played together quickly, the movements look smooth. They might only move a character’s arm a fraction of an inch in each picture, so that it takes many pictures just for a character to raise its hand.
These are just two of the techniques used to create animated shows and movies. They are extremely time consuming and take a lot of dedication and inspiration. If you’d like, you can find apps that let you make your own computer animations or stop motion animations!
Apart from its direct impact, logging plays a major role in deforestation through the building of roads which are subsequently used by landless farmers to gain access to rainforest areas. These displaced people then clear the forest by slashing and burning to grow enough food to keep them and their families alive, a practice which is called subsistence farming. This problem is so widespread that Robert Repetto of the World Resources Institute ranks commercial logging as the biggest agent of tropical deforestation. This view was supported by the World Wide Fund for Nature's 1996 study, Bad Harvest?, which surveyed logging in the world's tropical forests.

Most of the rainforest timber on the international market is exported to rich countries. There, it is sold for hundreds of times the price that is paid to the indigenous people whose forests have been plundered. The timber is used in the construction of doors, window frames, crates, coffins, furniture, plywood sheets, chopsticks, household utensils and other items.
The Mists of Avalon Reading Passage
The Mists of Avalon is a novel written by Marion Zimmer Bradley. The story is unique because it is retold through the lives and viewpoints of the women who possessed power beyond the throne. It’s ironic because women were seen as second class citizens at the time.
Morgaine, half sister to King Arthur, is a high priestess in the land of Avalon. The magical land of Avalon believes that women are the gatekeepers of knowledge and the creator of life. It is Morgaine's quest to move Britain away from Christianity, which has a different view.
The novel is told with clarity and wonderful detail. This spellbinding novel is magical and a must. It is often cited as one of the most authentic and raw stories of legend of King Arthur.
The novel was written by Marion Zimmer Bradley in 1983. The novel won a Locus Award for Best Fantasy novel and spent several months on the New York Times best seller list. In 2001, the novel was adapted to a television miniseries. Bradley past away two years prior to the making of the miniseries.
Curious About Careers: Mechanical Engineering
Do you like to build with blocks? Are you curious about how solar panels turn sun rays into electricity? Have you wondered how planes stay in the air? Do you wonder why putting gas into cars causes the wheels to turn? Do you like to design and create new things? If you do, a career in mechanical engineering might be right for you!
A mechanical engineer is responsible for coming up with and designing mechanical systems. Mechanical systems can include machine design, heating and cooling equipment, power generation, and product design. Products like the latest cellphone begin with an engineer coming up with the idea.
Mechanical engineers are in high demand right now. That means that there are a lot of job openings for mechanical engineers, but there aren’t enough people to fill those jobs. Because there is a high need for engineers, and the work requires specialized knowledge, engineers get paid more than some other careers.
To be a mechanical engineer, you need to graduate from college with a bachelor’s degree. During your years in college, you will learn problem- solving and critical thinking skills that will help you to succeed as an engineer.
Problem solving is very important in the field of mechanical engineering. People in this career need to be able to think about problems in different ways to figure out the best solution. You also need to be creative, because you may need to make something that’s never been made before. Attention to detail is important, as well. Many designs rely on a lot of little details that need to work together.
Mechanical engineers should also be very comfortable using a variety of tools, such as calculators, high-speed cameras, measurement tools, and computers to assist them in completing their job. There are many computer programs mechanical engineers use to create designs in 3D, run scenarios, and analyze calculations. Engineers also use computers for research.
As with many other jobs, mechanical engineers need to be able to meet deadlines and work well with other people. Some jobs can be done with just one person, but more often mechanical engineers are working on a team to complete a project. If an engineer cannot manage his or her time well and misses a deadline, the entire team gets delayed, which is not good for the company.
Some engineers work in an office, and some travel to different worksites while a machine or product is being built, so they can help solve any problems.
Mechanical engineering takes a lot of thought. It is a great career for people who like to make objects and machines work, solve problems, and be creative!
Benjamin Sees a Sloth
Benjamin’s class was learning about unusual animals. Today they were going on a field trip to the zoo to see some of the animals they had learned about. Benjamin’s favorite was the sloth. He had never seen one, but he had learned a lot about them, and seen pictures of them. They were so cute. They had big round eyes, and looked like they were wearing a mask. The sloths in all of the pictures looked like they were smiling.
Benjamin remembered a story he had read about sloths. The story said that many sloths live in the tropical forests in the South American country of Bolivia. Santa Cruz, a large city in Bolivia, has many large parks with old and beautiful trees. Years ago, many sloths lived in these trees. People liked to come to the parks and look for the sloths. Even though there were many sloths in the parks, they were hard to see. Their fur was as green as the leaves of the trees they lived in. Benjamin wished he could have visited one of those parks. He was sure he would have been able to spot the sloths, even if they were hard to see.
The story went on to say that there was a problem with the sloths in the parks. Even though sloths don’t move very often, and are very, very slow, they do not like to be bothered. And if they are bothered, their long curved claws make very good weapons. Children in the parks of Santa Cruz, and even some adults, would poke at the sloths to try to get them to move. Some of these people got serious scratches and cuts from the sloths’ sharp claws. The city decided to move the sloths out of the parks and back to the forests that were their natural home. Benjamin decided that had been a good idea. The sloths would be safer, and so would the people.
Benjamin’s class arrived at the zoo, and they finally came to the section where the sloths lived. The sign said there were two sloths. It was a large area, with many trees. Benjamin looked and looked, but he didn’t see the sloths. He was very disappointed. Then his teacher said, “Look there!” and pointed. And there was one of the sloths, just ten feet away from Benjamin, a little higher than his head. And it was even cuter in person than it was in the pictures.
Cesar Chavez
Cesar Estrada Chavez (1927-1993) was a Mexican- American labor leader who used non-violent methods to fight for the rights of migrant farm workers in the southwestern United States. Migrant workers often move from farm to farm or from town to town to find work. It is usually difficult work and does not pay a high wage. Chavez was influenced greatly by the peaceful philosophies of St. Francis of Assisi and Mohandas Gandhi.
Chavez was born in Arizona. When he was ten-years- old, his parents lost the family farm because of the Great Depression. They were forced to become migrant workers themselves. Chavez worked part-time in the farm fields with his family in Arizona and later in California, when his family lived there. After graduating from 8th grade, Chavez worked full-time to help support his family.
He served in the U.S. Navy during WWII, married Helen Fabela in 1948, and eventually helped raise a family of eight children. Chavez and his wife helped teach Mexican immigrants to read and helped them with voting registration.
Chavez was concerned over the health and working conditions of the migrant population. He did not like the use of pesticides, the name of the chemicals used to kill bugs on the crops. He knew that pesticides could make human beings sick. He organized a group of people to help work for the rights of farm workers. They worked on many goals like increasing the wages for the workers, improving their working conditions, and improving the safety for the farm workers.
Chavez helped organize strikes, whereby the workers chose to stop working to protest some important issues related to work. For example, the migrant workers went on strike to protest the poor wages, poor working conditions, and lack of safety on their jobs. They refused to work until something changed regarding their salary and these working conditions. The public, that is consumers like you, sometimes chooses to support the strike by not buying certain products or not buying from a certain store, etc. This is called a boycott. Boycotts put pressure on the people who make decisions regarding those who are protesting and striking.
Chavez went on many hunger strikes, too, which is another type of strike to prove a point and draw attention to what his concerns were. In a hunger strike, you basically do not eat until the demands are met. Chavez was able to use the hunger strikes to move legislators to change the laws to improve the lives of farm workers. Because of Chavez’s actions, he was jailed many times. Despite this, he continued his goal of helping to fight for the migrant worker.
Chavez, with aid from Dolores Huerta and Gilbert Padilla, started a union called the National Farm Workers Association (NFWA) to help fight for social justice. He organized a national boycott of lettuce and grapes.
The name NFWA was changed to the United Farm Workers (UFW) in 1974. In 1978, some of the demands for better wages and working conditions were met, so the boycott for the lettuce and grapes was lifted.
Throughout his life, Chavez’s motto was “Si, se puede”. This meant, “Yes, it can be done”. Chavez proved that it could be done. His work for fair treatment and better pay for migrant workers helped make the lives of millions of people better.
After a lifetime of working to help these people, Chavez died in 1993. He received the Presidential Medal of Freedom after his death. Chavez’s children and grandchildren continue in his footsteps to help fight for the rights for migrant workers.
Though it was not called Thanksgiving at the time, what we recognize as the first Thanksgiving feast was celebrated in 1621 by the pilgrims of the Plymouth colony along with about 90 Wampanoag Indians. The Pilgrims had suffered through a devastating winter in which nearly half their number died. Without the help of the Indians, all would have perished.

After the first harvest, Governor William Bradford proclaimed a day of thanksgiving and prayer to God. The food, which was eaten outdoors, included corn, geese, turkeys, ducks, eel, clams, leeks, plums, cod, bass, barley, venison and corn bread. The feast lasted 3 days. Though the exact date is unknown, the feast clearly took place in late autumn.
A group of scientists is seeking a standardized protocol for dealing with the possibility of an asteroid or comet striking the Earth, saying humans can do more than the dinosaurs ever could before a colossal impact precipitated their extinction 65 millions years ago.

The call comes as interest grows in the swarm of asteroids and comets that orbit the sun in the Earth's immediate neighborhood. The concerns were sparked in part by several recent false alarms about impending impacts.

"In some sense, it's something we know we need to worry about, but we need to decide at what level we need to worry about it -- and that's a question for everybody," said Daniel D. Durda, a research scientist in the department of space studies of the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colo.

In recent weeks, a paper written by Durda and fellow scientists Clark R. Chapman and Robert E. Gold has been making the rounds among experts who study impact hazards. The goal, they write in the 19-page paper, is to encourage discussion of how to replace the "haphazard and unbalanced'' way the world now addresses any potential impact.

"They are spot-on that this is a problem. They are also right on time in terms of this just now being recognized as serious enough a topic so as to go to the next step in terms of 'what if,''' said Richard Binzel, a professor of planetary science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who developed a scale to rank the potential danger of an impact. "We have now overcome the giggle factor.'' 
I Will Think About It
“I will think about it.” It is easy to say this, but do you know what great things have come from thinking? We cannot see our thoughts, or hear, or taste, or feel them, and yet what mighty power our thoughts have!
Sir Isaac Newton was seated in his garden on a summer’s evening when he saw an apple fall from a tree. He began to think, and, in trying to find out why the apple fell, discovered how the earth, sun, moon, and stars are kept in their places.
A boy named James Watt sat quietly by the fireside watching the lid of the tea kettle as it moved up and down. He began to think; he wanted to find out why the steam in the kettle moved the heavy lid. From that time, he went on thinking and thinking, and when he became a man, he improved the steam engine so much that it could do the work of many horses with the greatest ease.
When you see a steamboat, a steam mill or a locomotive, remember that it would never have been built if it had not been for the hard thinking of someone.
A man named Galileo was once standing in the cathedral of Pisa when he saw a chandelier swaying to and fro. This set him thinking, and it led to the invention of the pendulum.
James Ferguson was a poor Scottish shepherd boy. Once, seeing the inside of a watch, he was filled with wonder.
“I should make a watch,” he thought. But how was he to get the materials to make the wheels and the mainspring? He soon found out how to get them. He made the mainspring out of a piece of whalebone. He then made a wooden clock which kept good time. He began, also, to copy pictures with a pen and portraits with oil colors.
In a few years, while still a small boy, he earned enough money to support his father. When he became a man, he went to London to live. Some of the wisest men in England, and the king himself, used to attend his lectures. His motto was, “I will think of it,” and he made his thoughts useful to himself and the world.
When you have a difficult lesson to learn, don’t feel discouraged, and ask someone to help you before helping yourselves. By thinking you will learn how to think to some purpose.
At the Shelter
Lynn and her mother go to the animal shelter. They want to adopt a pet. They see cats and kittens. They see big dogs. They see little dogs. They see rabbits.
“What kind of pet do you want?” Lynn’s mother says.
“All of them!” Lynn says.
The Zebra
Mary and her mother go to the zoo. They see monkeys. They see bears. They see lions.
“I want to see the zebras!” Mary says.
They go to see the zebras. Zebras are Mary’s favorite animal. “Look!” Mary’s mother says. “That zebra is looking at you.” “He is my favorite zebra,” Mary says. “I am going to call him stripes!”
We Are Important

Doctors are important. They keep us healthy.
Police officers are important. They keep us safe. Firefighters are important. They help people.
Teachers are important. They help us learn.
Scientists are important. They learn new things to help us. Bus drivers are important. They get us places safely. Cashiers are important. They let us buy food and clothes. Families are important. They take care of us.
We all are important!
Here Comes the Band

Here comes the band! Should we call Mommy and Fanny to see it?
Let us stand still and hear the men play as they pass.
I hope they will stop here and play for us.
See the large man in front of the band with his big hat?
What’s he holding in his hand? How fine he looks!
Look at the man on that fine horse too.
If the men do not stop, let us follow them and see where they go.
Bedtime for Benji
“But Mo-om, I’m not sleepy,” whined Benji. “I don’t wa-ant to go to bed right now.”
Momma Black Bear sighed. She had already raised six baby bears who were now adults. Some of her other
cubs didn’t like bedtime either. She knew what she needed to do to convince Benji that going to bed on time was important.
“Okay Benji,” Momma Black Bear said. “Since you aren’t sleepy you can stay outside but I am going to bed.” With that she went inside the warm and cozy bear den with Benji’s brother Bart.
Benji decided to watch the stars and the moon. Then he began to hear strange noises. Soon Momma Raccoon came by with her young triplets. “What are you doing up so late?” she asked Benji. “Bears are supposed to sleep at night.”
Next Momma Possum waddled by. “Benji,” she said, “You were supposed to be asleep a long time ago. How will you grow into a great big bear if you don’t get enough sleep?”
A little while later the wise old owl stopped by to visit Benji. Mr. Owl told Benji stories about raising his own baby owls. Benji learned that all the parent animals knew what was good for their babies.
Momma Black Bear was right. Benji needed to go to bed at bedtime. He went in the den and snuggled close with Bart.
A Good Day for Birds
Jill loved to take her dog Magellan out for long walks. Their favorite walk was a long paved path that went in and out of woods, across fields, crossed streams with footbridges, and sometimes gave them a wonderful view of Mattawoman Creek.
On Saturday morning, Jill hooked up Magellan’s leash and grabbed her knapsack. Magellan watched her, his tail wagging widely. She packed bottles of water for each of them and a shallow dish for Magellan to drink from. She put on sunscreen and her sneakers, and they set off.
It was a bright, warm morning. Before they had gone very far, Jill saw a pair of red-headed woodpeckers at the top of a telephone pole. A little farther, out in the middle of the creek, standing on an island of lily pads, was a grey heron. “This is shaping up to be a good day for birds,” Jill said to Magellan. Magellan wagged his tail.
On they went. Up ahead of them, a large wild turkey walked across their path and disappeared into the woods. Jill paused when she got to where it had gone, trying to see it. She had never seen a bird like that on the path before. A little farther on, a redwing blackbird strutted around the shoulder of the path. And then a great grey heron took off from a nearby pond and made a slow flight across the path and over to the pond on the other side. Jill just gazed in awe. It flew up and up, and finally perched at the top of a dead tree.
After she had gone two miles, Jill and Magellan turned around. On the way back, she let Magellan wade in a shallow stream to cool off. She saw the same herons again; one perched at the top of the dead tree, and the other in the creek on the lily pads. When they got home, Jill’s mother asked about her walk. “It was a good day for birds!” Jill told her.
African elephants are some of the smartest animals in the world. They form close friendships with each other and with humans. They communicate with each other, help each other, and play with each other. They feel both happiness and sorrow. They cry when they are sad. If a friend is sad, an elephant will offer gentle touches with its trunk as comfort. If there is danger, elephants warn each other by stamping their feet on the ground. Other elephants can feel the ground movement with their feet even if they are twenty miles away.
Fox and Bear
Fox saw the field being planted with corn. He went to visit Bear, and
suggested that they share the field. Fox said he would have the tops of the crop, and Bear would have the roots. When the crop was grown, Bear did not like having only the roots of the corn plants. But it was what they had agreed. The next year, Fox saw the field being planted with turnips. He went to visit Bear. He said that, to be fair, this year Bear would have the tops of the crop, and Fox would have the roots. When the crops were grown, Bear was unhappy again. He had only the bitter tops, while bear had the nice sweet turnips. But it was what they had agreed. However, Bear never agreed to share the field with Fox again.
How to Make a Paper Boat
You can make a paper boat by folding a piece of computer
paper. First, fold the paper in half from top to bottom. Then unfold the paper and fold it in half from left to right. Fold the top corners down so that their edges meet at the crease that you just made, leaving one or two inches of space at the bottom. Fold the bottom of the paper up against both sides. The corners of the rectangle will be sticking out over the triangle. Fold them in around the edge of the triangle. Flip the paper over, and do the same thing on the other side. Use your fingers to open up the bottom of the triangle. It will naturally start to pop into a square/diamond shape. Push it flat. Fold up the bottom point of the diamond. Turn it over and do the same thing on the other side. Again, open up the bottom of your new triangle with your fingers to create another diamond shape. Starting at the top, gently pull the two sides apart so that the seam running down the middle of the diamond opens. Now you have a boat!
The Boy Who Cried Wolf
A boy named John was once taking care of some sheep not far from a forest. Nearby was a village, and he was told to call for help if there was any danger.
One day, he thought he would have some fun, and he cried out with all his might, “The wolf is coming! The wolf is coming!” The men came running with clubs and axes to save the boy from the wolf. As they saw nothing, they went home again and left John laughing in his sleeve.
The day before he had had so much fun, John cried out again the next day, “The wolf! The wolf!” The men came again. This time not as many as the first time. Again they saw no trace of the wolf, so they shook their heads and went back.
On the third day, the wolf came in earnest. John cried in dismay, “Help! Help! The wolf!The wolf! ”Not a single man came to help him. The wolf broke into the flock and attacked the sheep. Among them was a beautiful lamb that belonged to John. Then he felt very sorry that he had deceived his friends and neighbors, and he grieved over the loss of his pet lamb.
The truth itself is not believed from one who often has deceived.
Emma’s Favorite Restaurant
When Emma and her family go out to dinner, they always go to their favorite restaurant. Their favorite restaurant is an Italian restaurant, and they usually go once a week. Emma
always gets ravioli, and her little brother Josh always gets spaghetti with meatballs. Their parents like to try different things.
One week when they were getting ready to go out to dinner, Emma’s father suggested they try the new restaurant in town. Emma and Josh both moaned and groaned. The new restaurant was Lebanese. All Emma and Josh knew about Lebanese food was that it often revolved around chick peas and grape leaves.
“You might actually end up liking it if you give it a try,” said their mom.
Their dad added, “Let’s try it once, and if you don’t like it, we will go back to our ‘tried and true’ spot next week.”
Emma and Josh got into the backseat of the car and rolled their eyes at each other.
Josh asked, “If we don’t like it, can we get a pizza on the way home?”
“I highly doubt you will go hungry, but if it makes you feel better, we will grab a pizza on the way home.”
When they arrived at the restaurant, a host met them at the door and greeted them with enthusiasm. He led them to a table and said, “We are very happy that you are trying our new restaurant. If you have any questions about the menu or need any help choosing a menu item, your server will be with you shortly.
The restaurant was looked pretty cool, and the host was super nice. Emma and Josh began to relax a little bit. They actually started to think it would be fun to try something new.
When the server came over, he told them what some of his favorite meals were. Emma and Josh were surprised to learn that the restaurant served something similar to ravioli, and it served a meatball dish.
Emma ordered manti, dumplings filled with spiced lamb and covered in tomato sauce. Josh ordered kibbeh, meatballs made with wheat and spiced ground lamb and served with garlic sauce.
After Emma and Josh took the first bites of their dishes, they paused before saying anything. Emma was thinking that the manti tasted different than ravioli, but she didn’t think it was bad. Josh was thinking his meatballs looked very similar to the meatballs that come with spaghetti, but the sauce was white, not red like he was used to. He liked the kibbeh, though.
They each took a few more bites, and then they both declared, “You were right, Mom. This food is pretty tasty.”
When the meal was over, Emma said, “I think I have another favorite restaurant. Now I have a favorite Italian restaurant and a favorite Lebanese restaurant.”
Josh agreed and asked, “Can we switch between the two restaurants for our weekly dinners out?”
“I think that is a great idea,” said Emma and Josh’s parents.
“Maybe we can even try the Thai restaurant sometime soon,” said Emma.
Carrie and Kylie giggled. Neither of them knew what they had just found. They thought that they had discovered a cool looking rock. They had no idea that they were holding a real life dinosaur egg. This surprise would dawn on them later, when they brought the egg home. Carrie was using the egg as a paperweight, so she kept the egg under her desk lamp. But this egg would soon hatch, and Carrie and Kylie were about to have the adventure of a lifetime.
Jeremiah squinted from the sun. He was thinking about the game. They could have won. He could have won the game for them. All he needed to do was catch the ball, but he didn't. He dropped it. His coach talked to him. "Jeremiah, we had a great season. Nobody's perfect. Look at me. Ha ha," he said. Jeremiah smiled at the coach, but he couldn't forgive himself so easily.
Carmen admired the twirling dancer in the music box. She was so beautiful, so fragile, just like herself, she thought. Then she heard a pounding on the door. Her heart jumped. "Billy, can you get that?" she shouted to her brother. He shouted back, "I can't pause this game! You get it!" Carmen accepted his answer as fact and then sighed. She passed by Billy's room on her way to the front door. He was sitting on a beanbag, covered in powdered sugar, and gaming intensely.
The sound of traffic filled the street. I pressed the doorbell again. I wondered if the button worked. Could the person inside hear the sound of the buzzer over the traffic noises? Were they even home? I decided that it didn't matter. I checked the address off my list and proceeded to the next house. Somebody was going to order cookies from me today. Somebody.
In the summer of 1939, a few months before World War II started, Albert Einstein and a group of Hungarian scientists wrote to President Franklin D. Roosevelt. In this letter they warned Roosevelt that the Nazi’s were conducting atomic research and that the consequences would be dire if the Nazis were to win the race to build an atom bomb. They recommended that U.S. become involved in uranium research. As a result of this letter, the U.S. joined the atomic race and poured billions of dollars into the development of weaponry. The U.S. won the race and became the first country to build an atomic bomb. The bomb was then used in Japan, killing hundreds of thousands of civilians. In 1954, a year before his death, Einstein would refer to the moment that he signed the letter to President Roosevelt as the greatest mistake of his life.
“You can’t go that way, the path is blocked by something evil. No one who has gone down that path has ever returned,” Xandor said to me, his face covered with shadows. We didn’t really have any choice, considering that the black mist was following us. If we went the slow way, we would surely be consumed. I didn’t want to argue with him, so I finished the argument, “Look, Xandor, I’m going. You can chop down trees and clear brush if you want to be fog food, but you’re on your own.” Then I started walking down the forbidden path. It wasn’t long until I heard his footsteps pattering toward me.
The stars seem brighter tonight. The night sky seems deeper. You gaze through the telescope and stare into the wonder of the cosmos. As you turn the focus knob back and forth, something catches your eye. It is appears to be some kind of spacecraft, but it doesn't look like any that you've seen before. It seems more advanced.
The doorbell rang. Scott bounded down the stairs. He looked through the peephole and then opened the door. The mailman stood there holding a package. "Is your mother or father home?" Scott shook his head back and forth. The mailman handed Scott a bulky scanning device and said, "Sign here, please." Scott grabbed the stylus and scrawled his name.
Andy looked around his room. It was completely trashed. His floors were layered with clothing. Underneath the clothing were random toys. His lamp had a pair of boxer shorts on top of it. Some of his drawers were pulled out completely from his dresser and lying on the floor, others were hanging from the dresser. As Andy walked toward the bed carrying a blanket, he jumped up in the air and exclaimed, "Ahhh! My foot! I hurt my foot!" He peeled back the layers under where he just stepped and found a model plane. He threw it across the room with a crash.

The steps of the dark temple towered before Kung and Kiko. Kung listened for the sounds of the enemy, but he heard nothing. This made him sure that they were walking into a trap. "Do you hear that, Kiko?" he said. Kiko listened intently. She heard a few birds tweeting and a light breeze blowing, but nothing else. She shook her head. Kung gave her a knowing look. Kiko understood what Kung had left unsaid. Her heart beat rapidly. Kung and Kiko were not the type of people to get afraid, but they knew that a fight was coming.
For most of human history, people thought that the Earth was the center of the universe. Nicolaus Copernicus changed how people understood the universe when he theorized that it was heliocentric, or sun-centered. Interestingly, Copernicus had most of this theory worked out some time before 1514, and his work was fully articulated by 1532, yet publication of this text was not completed until 1543 as he lay dying. Some scholars believe that Copernicus delayed publishing this work because it contradicted the Catholic Church’s view that the Earth was at the center of the universe. Copernicus’s may have been smart in doing so because the Church did not formally accept his view of the universe until 1822, almost 300 years later.
Suzie applied the lipstick to her lips. She had never done this before. She smacked her lips like she had seen other women do in the movies and looked in the mirror. She felt unsure about what she saw. She turned to her friend Donna and asked, "How do I look?" Donna gasped and said, "You look breathtaking, Suzie." Suzie smiled. She was grateful for these words, even though she didn't believe them.
Kathy threw the chew toy at her dog Brando. Brando caught the chew toy in midair. "Nice catch, Brando!" Kathy praised him. She wasn't really all that impressed. Brando had caught it the last 200 or so times, but she felt that it was important to encourage Brando, so she did. Brando brought the toy back to Kathy and dropped it in front of her. Then he started running in circles and barking. Kathy sighed. She was tired of throwing the chew toy. "Ok, Brando, catch!" she tossed the toy yet another time.
Brian could not bear to be on the roof of the skyscraper any longer. He wasn't usually afraid of heights, but the wind was so strong and Rufus kept messing with him. "Would you try to land on your feet or your head?" Rufus asked with a straight face. Rufus could tell that he was getting to Brian, which only encouraged him to keep going. "Let's go look over the edge, Brian," suggested Rufus, knowing full well that Brian would refuse.
Why Does the Ocean Have Waves?
The ocean is never still. Whether observing from the beach or a boat, we expect to see waves on the horizon. Waves are created by energy passing through water, causing it to move in a circular motion. However, water does not actually travel in waves. Waves transmit energy, not water, across the ocean and if not obstructed by anything, they have the potential to travel across an entire ocean basin.
Waves are most commonly caused by wind. Wind-driven waves, or surface waves, are created by the friction between wind and surface water. As wind blows across the surface of the ocean or a lake, the continual disturbance creates a wave crest. These types of waves are found globally across the open ocean and along the coast.
More potentially hazardous waves can be caused by severe weather, like a hurricane. The strong winds and pressure from this type of severe storm causes storm surge, a series of long waves that are created far from shore in deeper water and intensify as they move closer to land. Other hazardous waves can be caused by underwater disturbances that displace large amounts of water quickly such as earthquakes, landslides, or volcanic eruptions. These very long waves are called tsunamis. Storm surge and tsunamis are not the types of waves you imagine crashing down on the shore. These waves roll upon the shore like a massive sea level rise and can reach far distances inland.
The gravitational pull of the sun and moon on the earth also causes waves. These waves are tides or, in other words, tidal waves. It is a common misconception that a tidal wave is also a tsunami. The cause of tsunamis are not related to tide information at all but can occur in any tidal state.
The Osprey
The osprey is not as large as the eagle, but he has a hooked bill and sharp claws like the eagle.
His coloring is dark brown with black and white spots, and he is from twenty to twenty-two inches long. His breast is mostly white. His tail and wings are long.
The osprey is often found sitting in a tree over a pond, lake or river. He is also found by the seaside.
He watches the fish as they swim in the water beneath him, and then he darts down suddenly and catches one of them.
When he catches a fish in his sharp, rough claws, he carries it off to eat. As he flies away with it for his dinner, an eagle sees him.
The eagle flies at him fiercely with his sharp bill and claws and compels the osprey to drop the fish.
Then the eagle catches the fish as it falls and carries it off.
The poor osprey, with a loud cry, timidly flies away. He must go again to the water and catch another fish for his dinner.
 
Camel and Pig
Camel said being tall was best, and Pig said being short was best. Camel
said if he was wrong, he would give up his hump. Pig said if he was wrong, he would give up his curly tail. They came to a garden inside a low wall. Camel reached his long neck over the wall and ate his fill. Pig could not even see over the wall. Then they came to a garden inside a high wall, with a covered gate. Pig went through the gate and ate his fill. Camel was too tall to go through the gate. They thought about all this, and decided that Camel would keep his hump, and Pig would keep his curly tail, because, as Pig said, “Tall is good when tall is needed; of short, the same is true.”
Reading is Good for You!
Reading isn’t just fun, it’s good for you! Reading is like exercise for your mind.
Just as using your muscles keeps them strong and healthy, reading keeps
your mind strong and healthy. When you read, you use your imagination,
and using your imagination is relaxing. Reading also makes you smarter. You learn new things. You also learn more words. Reading is good for your memory. It helps train your brain to focus. People who read a lot are better at solving problems, and they are also better writers. Reading can also make you feel more calm. What is your favorite thing about reading?
Moving Day
Paul’s family was moving to a new house on the other side of their neighborhood. The new house was bigger than their old one, and it was closer to Paul’s school. It was a nice house, but though Paul had loved it when they had gone to look at it, he had been disappointed to learn that the previous owners were not planning to leave the awesome treehouse in the back yard. As soon as he had found that out, Paul had not been excited about moving anymore.
“Why do we have to move?” Paul complained for the millionth time. “I’ve been in this house all of my life!”
“A change can be good,” Paul’s mother told him.
“Change can be fun!” Paul’s father told him.
But when moving day arrived, Paul was not happy. He moped around the house
while the movers put everything into a big truck. “This is stupid,” he muttered to himself. “We’re only moving six blocks away!”
“Time to go!” Paul’s mother told him.
All the way to the new house, Paul’s father whistled, and Paul sulked. He stared
out the window. His friends Jim and Martin were out riding bikes. They waved at Paul, and he wiggled his fingers sadly back at them. He would never be happy again. His life was ruined.
But then they pulled up to the house. Could it be true? Between the house and the detached garage, Paul could clearly see the cool treehouse, still nestled in the sturdy tree. He turned to his parents with question marks in his eyes.
“Surprise!” they said at the same time. “We bought the treehouse too!”
Magpie built the best nest of all the birds, so the birds asked her to teach them how. Magpie started with a mud pancake. Thrush said, “Aha!” and flew away. Thrush still makes her nest out of mud. Magpie added some twigs. Owl said, “Aha!” and flew away. Owl still makes her nest that way. Each time Magpie finished a step, one of the birds thought Magpie was finished, and flew away. Magpie got angry because the birds hadn’t stayed, so she refused to show them ever again. And that is why different birds build their nests differently.
A Birdhouse
“There’s an activity at the park next Saturday. Kids can build a birdhouse. Would you like to go?” asked Mom.
Come Saturday morning Britney and Matthew arrived at the park recreation building wondering how they would build a birdhouse. They had never built anything before.
Mrs. Washington had everything they needed lined up for them. She had already cut the small pieces of plywood that would make the sides, floor and roof of the birdhouse with a saw. She even made the hole in the front side for a small bird to come into and leave the birdhouse. She had used an electric drill with a hole saw attached to make the hole.
Before the kids glued the pieces of the birdhouse together, they learned how to tell which side of the wood goes to the outside of the birdhouse. The smoothest side was used to face the outside and the rough side made the inside walls of the birdhouse.
Next the kids prepared the wood for painting by making it even smoother with sandpaper. Then they used wood glue to put the pieces together. The wood glue was different from the glue for paper they used at school.
They had a little snack while the glue dried. Next they painted their birdhouses. Finally they put a wire hanger on each birdhouse. In the spring some bird would have a good place for a nest.
Here Ponto

“Here Ponto! Here Ponto!” Kate called to her dog. “Come, and get the dolls out of the pond.”
The dolls were named Rose and Bess. They were floating on the top of the water.
Ponto came with a bound and jumped into the pond. He swam around and got Bess in his mouth and brought her to the shore.
Ponto then found Rose and brought her out too.
Kate said, “Good, old Ponto! Brave old dog!
Jack’s Birdhouse

Jack wants to build a birdhouse. He gets some wood. He gets some nails and paint.
His mom helps too. She gets a saw and a hammer. She gets a pencil and ruler.
Jack draws his birdhouse. They build it together. Then they hang it up in a tree.
A bird goes into the bird house. A second bird goes in. A third bird goes in. A fourth bird goes in!
Jack and his mom look at each other. They need a bigger birdhouse!
Dressing Up
Joe and Marty are dressing up like cowboys. Joe puts on a cowboy hat. Marty puts on a cowboy hat. Joe puts on boots. Marty puts on boots. They both have stick horses. Joe pins on a silver star. Joe is the Sherriff.
Ski Trip
Ken goes on a ski trip. Ken loves to ski. He skis down a hill. Ken thinks that the best thing is that he goes very fast. He loves the cold. He loves the snow. He loves his red jacket. Ken wishes that he could ski every day!
The 100 plus elements are the "alphabet" of matter because every tangible material is a combinations of these elements.

The elements are categorized as: Metals, Non-Metals, Metalloids, Noble Gases

This main categorization is based on the electrical attributes of the elements. Some elements tend to "lose" an electron, and become postively charged. (These are the metals), Other elements tend to "acquire" an electron, and become negatively charged, (the non metals). The third group, (metalloids), fall in between these two extremes. And the Noble Gas category is "unelectrical" -- displays no interest in either acquiring and losing an electron, but unlike the metalloids who can be "persuaded" one way or the other -- the noble ones simply don't engage.

Since chemical reaction and chemical bonding are electrical in nature, it so happens that members of a certain category can substitute for another member and thereby create a combination which is slightly different, but generally similar. Say then that by carefully chosing a replacement element in a chemical compound, it is possible to "engineer" a desired slight change in the nature of the compound. This used to be the art, and now is the science of chemistry. 
Bruce and the Spider
There was once a king of Scotland whose name was Robert Bruce. He needed to be both brave and wise because the times in which he lived were wild and rude. The King of England was at war with him and had led a great army into Scotland to drive him out of the land.
Battle after battle had been fought. Six times Bruce had led his brave little army against his foes and six times his men had been beaten and driven into flight. At last his army was scattered, and he was forced to hide in the woods and in lonely places among the mountains.
One rainy day, Bruce lay on the ground under a crude shed listening to the patter of the drops on the roof above him. He was tired and unhappy. He was ready to give up all hope. It seemed to him that there was no use for him to try to do anything more.
As he lay thinking, he saw a spider over his head making ready to weave her web. He watched her as she toiled slowly and with great care. Six times she tried to throw her frail thread from one beam to another, and six times it fell short.
“Poor thing,” said Bruce: “you, too, know what it is to fail.”
But the spider did not lose hope with the sixth failure. With still more care, she made ready to try for the seventh time. Bruce almost forgot his own troubles as he watched her swing herself out upon the slender line. Would she fail again? No! The thread was carried safely to the beam and fastened there.
“I, too, will try a seventh time!” cried Bruce.
He arose and called his men together. He told them of his plans and sent them out with messages of cheer to his disheartened people. Soon there was an army of brave Scotchmen around him. Another battle was fought, and the King of England was retreated to his own country.
After that day, no one by the name of Bruce would ever hurt a spider. The lesson which the little creature had taught the king was never forgotten.
Alternative Energy Sources Wind, Solar, Geothermal, and Hydroelectric Power
There are many reasons to use alternative energy sources. One reason is to reduce pollutants and greenhouse gases. Alternative or renewable energy sources help to reduce the amount of toxins that are a result of traditional energy use. These alternative energy sources help protect against the harmful by-products of energy use and help to preserve many of the natural resources that we currently use as energy sources.
There are many alternative energy sources: wind power, solar power, geothermal power, and hydroelectric power are some examples.
Wind Power. Wind power is the ability to capture the wind in a way to propel the blades of wind turbines. When the blades rotate, this movement is switched into electrical current with the help of an electrical generator. In older windmills, wind energy turned mechanical machinery to do
the physical work like crushing grain to make bread or pumping water to get water. Wind towers are built on wind farms, and usually there are several towers built together. In 2005, the worldwide use of wind-powered generators was less than 1% of all of the electricity use combined. There are several advantages of this energy source: there is no pollution, it never runs out, farming and grazing can still take place on the same land as the wind turbines, and wind farms can be built anywhere. One disadvantage is that you need a consistent wind to get enough power. If the wind speed decreases, less electricity is produced. Large wind farms can also have a negative visual effect for people who live nearby.
Solar Power. Solar energy is used for heating, cooking, making electricity, and even taking salt out of saltwater so the water can be drinkable and used for additional purposes that do not need the salt. Solar power uses sunlight that hits the solar thermal panels to convert the sunlight to heat either air or water.
Other methods of using solar power include simply opening up blinds or shades and letting the sunlight pass into the room or using some type of mirror to heat water and produce steam. One advantage of solar power is that it is renewable. As long as there is sunlight, you will be able to harness the power from it. There is also no pollution and it can be used efficiently to heat and light things. You can see the benefits of solar energy in heating swimming pools, spas, and water tanks in many cities across the country.
Geothermal Energy. Geothermal means “earth heat”. This energy captures the heat energy under the Earth. Hot rocks under the ground help to heat water to produce steam. If holes are dug in this area of the ground, then the steam shoots up and is purified and used to drive turbines, which in turn gives power to electric generators. The advantages of this type of energy is that there are no harmful by-products, it is self-sufficient once the geothermal plant is built, and the plants are generally small so there is no negative visual effect on the area surrounding the plant.
Hydroelectric Energy. The power that comes from the potential energy of water that is dammed up supplies energy to a water turbine and generator. Another example of this energy is to make use of tidal power. Today, electric generators can be powered by hydro power that can run backwards as a motor to pump water for later use. An advantage is that you can control the use of the energy by controlling the water. You can also generate water all the time as there are no outside forces that prevent this from happening. Furthermore, there is no pollution in using this type of energy. In fact, you can reuse the water that is used for hydroelectric power. The disadvantages are that dams are expensive to build and maintain. There also needs to be a powerful enough supply of water in the area to produce energy.
In 1921, an unknown World War I American soldier was buried in Arlington National Cemetery. This site, on a hillside overlooking the Potomac River and the city of Washington, became the focal point of reverence for America's veterans.

Similar ceremonies occurred earlier in England and France, where an unknown soldier was buried in each nation's highest place of honor (in England, Westminster Abbey; in France, the Arc de Triomphe). These memorial gestures all took place on November 11, giving universal recognition to the celebrated ending of World War I fighting at 11 a.m., November 11, 1918 (the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month). The day became known as "Armistice Day".

Armistice Day officially received its name in America in 1926 through a Congressional resolution. It became a national holidiay 12 years later by similar Congressional action. If the idealistic hope had been realized that World War I was "the War to end all Wars," November 11 might still be called Armistice Day. But only a few years after the holiday was proclaimed, war broke out in Europe. Sixteen and one-half million Americans took part. Four hundred seven thousand of them died in service, more than 292,000 in battle.
The Father and His Sons
A father had four sons who were always arguing. If one son said the sky was blue, another would say it was green, another would say it was red, and another would say it was yellow. And so it would go on until it was night and the sky was black.
The father gathered a bundle of sticks together. He tied the bundle around with rope. Then he called to his sons. He told them to break the bundle of sticks in two. Each son was sure that he could break the bundle, and they began to argue about who was the strongest, until the father put the bundle into one son’s hands. The son tried and tried, but he could not break the bundle of sticks. One by one, the others tried, but none of them could break the bundle of sticks.
The father took back the bundle. He untied the rope and handed a few sticks to each of his sons, and the sons broke these easily. The father held up the last of the sticks, and cracked in over his knee with ease. “My sons,” he said, “if you are of one mind, and unite to help each other, you will be like the bundle of sticks, and no one will be able to harm you. But if you are divided among yourselves, you will be broken as easily as these sticks.”
The Earth is surrounded by two great oceans: an ocean of air and an ocean of water. Both are in constant motion, driven by the energy of the sun and the gravity of the Earth. Their motions are linked; the winds give energy to the sea surface and ocean currents are the result. The currents carry heat from one location to another, altering the Earth's surface temperature patterns and modifying the air above.

Out in the open sea, ocean waters are driven by two great wind systems. Close to the equator the Trade Winds blow the surface waters westward. In the temperate zone, the Westerlies blow the surface waters back toward the east. The result is that in each great ocean basin there is roughly circular movement of the surface waters. In the northern hemisphere these wind driven currents move clockwise and in the southern hemisphere they move counter clockwise. Both surface and deep-water currents affect the world's climate by moving cold water from the poles toward the tropics and vice versa.

Ocean waters are always in motion. Currents flow like rivers, waves crash against seashores and tides rise and fall.
Susie and Rover
“Mama,” said Susie Dean one summer’s morning, “may I go to the woods and pick berries?”
“Yes,” replied Mrs. Dean, “but you must take Rover with you.” Susie brought her little basket, and her mother packed a nice lunch for her. She tied down the cover and fastened a tin cup to it. The little girl called Rover—a great Newfoundland dog—and gave him a tin pail to carry. “If I bring it home full, mama,” she said, “will you make some berry cakes?”
Away she skipped, singing as she went down the lane and across the pasture. When she got to the woods, she put her lunch basket down beside a tree and began to pick berries. Rover ran about, chasing a squirrel and a rabbit, but never straying far from Susie.
The tin pail was not a very small one. By the time it was two thirds full, Susie began to feel hungry and thought she would eat her lunch. Rover came and took his place at her side as soon as she began to eat. Did she give him some of the lunch? No, she was in a selfish mood and did no such thing.
“There, Rover, run away! There’s a good dog,” she said, but Rover stayed near her, watching her steadily with his clear brown eyes. The meat he wanted so much was soon eaten up, and all he got of the nice lunch was a small crust of gingerbread that Susie threw away.
After lunch, Susie played for a while by the brook. She threw sticks into the water, and Rover swam in and brought them back. Then she began to pick berries again. She enjoyed the afternoon as much as she did the morning. The sunshine was as bright, the berries were as sweet and plentiful, and she was neither tired nor hungry.
Good, faithful Rover was hungry, and she had not given him even one piece of meat. She tried to forget how selfish she had been, but she could not do so, and quite early she started for home.
When she was nearly out of the woods, a rustling in the underbrush attracted her attention. “I wonder if that is a bird or a squirrel,” she said to herself. “If I can catch it, how glad I will be!” She tried to make her way quietly through the underbrush, but she was terrified when she saw a large snake coiled up before her prepared for a spring! She was f rightened so much that she could not move, but brave Rover saw the snake, and, springing forward, scared it away. When the faithful dog came and rubbed his head against her hand, Susie put her arms around his neck, and burst into tears. “O Rover,” she cried, “you dear, good dog! How sorry I am that I was so selfish!”
Rover understood the tone of her voice, although he did not understand her words, and ran about happily, barking all the time. You can be sure that he had a big supper that evening. Susie never forgot the lesson of that day. She soon learned to be on her guard against a selfish spirit and became a happier and more lovable little girl.
  
Dinosaurs are animals that evolved into many sizes and shapes. Dinosaurs were and are quite diverse, and often one person will think of an animal like a long-necked sauropod, while another person will think of a large, fierce meat-eater like Tyrannosaurus rex. It should be clear then that the term "dinosaurs", or the scientific version "Dinosauria", is describing a diverse group of animals with widely different modes of living. The term was invented by Sir Richard Owen in 1842 to describe these "fearfully great reptiles", specifically Megalosaurus, Iguanodon, and Hylaeosaurus, the only three dinosaurs known at the time. The creatures that we normally think of as dinosaurs lived from late in the Triassic period (about 225 million years ago) until the end of the Mesozoic era (about 65 million years ago); but actually they live on today as the birds.

Different dinosaurs lived at different times. Despite the portrayals in movies like Fantasia and Jurassic Park, no Stegosaurus ever saw a Tyrannosaurus, because Tyrannosaurus wasn't alive for another 80 or so million years. Ditto for Apatosaurus (a.k.a. "Brontosaurus").
For many centuries, as everyone knows, English monarchs tried to impose their will on Ireland. Queen Elizabeth I, eager to extend the influence of her government, sent a deputy to Cormac MacDermot MacCarthy, who was Lord of Blarney, and demanded that he take the tenure of his lands from the Crown. Cormac set out to visit the Queen and plead for his traditional right to his land, but he despaired for success for he was not fluent of speech.

Shortly after starting his journey, he met an old woman who asked him why he looked so forlorn. He told her his story and she said, "Cormac, when Blarney Castle was built, one stone was put into place by a man who predicted no one would ever be able to touch it again. If you can kiss that stone, the gift of eloquence will be conferred upon you."

Cormac traveled back to his castle and succeeded in kissing the stone. He then was able to go and address the Queen with speech so soft and words so fair that as long as he lived, he never had to renounce his right to his land. From that time forward, people have traveled from many lands to try to kiss the Blarney stone and receive the "gift of gab" and eloquence of speech.
“Bring Your Pet Day” Disaster
I had my backpack on my back and a leash in my hand. It was “Bring Your Pet to School” day! My dog Jax was happily trotting beside me as we walked to the bus stop. The other kids in my neighborhood had their pets, too. Josie had a fish bowl with her beta fish. John had a crate with his cat, Maxie, inside. Paula had a bird cage with her parakeet, Gerald, perched on a little swing. We were all excited to have our pets with us.
Once we got on the bus, though, things started to go downhill. The bus was so noisy! In addition to the normal chatter of the kids, the animals would not use their inside voices. And the smell was terrible! Jax’s nose was trying to sniff all the new smells, and it was hard to get him to follow me into a seat. When we were seated, another dog rushed up to us with a leash trailing behind her. She and Jax started to sniff each other curiously, and started to play.
“Fluffy! Get back here!” I heard one of the third graders shout. The dog ran towards the voice. The bus driver’s voice came over the speaker, “Please hold on to your pets! It is dangerous to have them running all over the bus!”
Finally, we were at school. As we were walking off the bus, I stepped in a small puddle. “Ugh, someone’s pet made a mess...” I said to myself. I wiped my shoes in the grass once I was off the bus. Then, I looked at the schoolyard.
It looked like a zoo! There were animals everywhere! Dogs of all shapes and sizes. Colorful birds in cages. Rabbits, chinchillas, and hedgehogs in little carrying cases. And... some animals running free through the grass and on the sidewalks, with kids chasing them in every direction!
They were making a mess. Their food and bedding was strewn over the grass. Some kids weren’t cleaning up after their dogs went to the bathroom. Fur was floating through the air. If it looks like this outside, I don’t want to see what it looks like inside, I thought.
Then, something crazy caught my eye. I saw a kangaroo hopping in the grass! And a peacock strutting up the stairs! I didn’t know people could have them as pets...
I walked into the building to my classroom. The hallways smelled worse than the bus. There were still animals running wild and messes everywhere. My classroom was no better. Mrs. Doltyn looked frazzled as she instructed us to keep our pets in their cages, or keep the leashes tied to our desks during class. As she was talking, she slowly started to turn into a parrot...
And I woke up, snug in my bed. Wow, no wonder our school doesn’t have a “Bring Your Pet to School” day! I thought. As much as I love Jax, I was really glad I wouldn’t have to worry about him or his messes all day at school.
Fish
Don has a fish tank. Inside the tank there are many fish. There are big fish. There are small fish. There are red fish. There are blue fish. But one fish has many colors. This is Don’s favorite fish. The colorful fish is named Rainbow. Rainbow’s favorite thing to do is eat!
Wagon
If I had a wagon. I’d pack up all my stuff. I’d bring a bag of cookies and a chocolate cream puff. I’d head out west into the sun to find my destiny. Oh what really super fun that wagon ride would be!
How to Tie Your Shoes

First, make an “X” with the laces. Take the bottom lace and put it in the space between the shoe and the middle of the “X.” Pull the
ends of both laces tight.
Next, make a loop with each lace. Make an “X” with both loops. Take the bottom loop and put it in the space between the shoe and the middle of the “X.” Pull both loops tight.
Last, do the steps again with the laces on your other shoe. Pat yourself on the back. You tied your shoes!
It will take you a few times to get it right. Keep on practicing!
O John!

O John! The sun has just set. It is not hot now.
Let us run and jump. I think it is fun to run and skip and jump.
See the duck on the pond! Her nest is up on the bank under the rock. We must not touch the nest, but we may look at it.
Homework or Video Games

Brad loves to play video games. His favorites are Disney games.
Brad got home from school one day, and his mom asked him if he had homework. He did, but he thought about saying no because he wanted to play his games.
Then he changed his mind. He knew that if he lied, he would lose his games for a week.
He did his homework first and still had time to play two games before dinner. He knows it is best to be honest.
Granny Fox Shows Reddy a Trick
Reddy Fox lived with Granny Fox in the Green Meadows. Granny is teaching Reddy the things that every fox should know. So she taught him how to steal Farmer John’s chickens without waking Bowser the Hound. Now she is teaching him not to be afraid of crossing the railroad bridge. Every day she made him run back and forth across the bridge until he had no fear of it at all.
“What good is it to cross a bridge?” Reddy grumbled. “Anybody can do that.”
Granny picked up her ears. “Shhh,” she said. “Listen.”
Reddy picked his ears, too, and heard the bark of a dog. Bowser the Hound!
“Now, Reddy,” Granny said, “you run across the bridge and watch from the top of the little hill over there. Perhaps I can show you a little trick that will teach you why I made you learn to run across the bridge.”
Reddy trotted across the long bridge and up to the top of the hill, as Granny had told him to. He sat down to watch.
Granny trotted over to a clearing and sat down. Pretty soon Bowser the Hound broke through the bushes. He spotted Granny and started to bark, and run toward her. As soon as Granny was sure the hound had seen her, she started to run too, but she did not run very fast. Reddy didn’t know what to make of it. It was almost like Granny was playing with the hound, and not really trying to get away at all.
Then Reddy heard another sound. It was a long, low rumble. Then there was a distant whistle. It was a train!
Granny heard it, too. She started to work her way back to the bridge. The train was in sight now, behind her.
Suddenly Granny Fox started across the bridge so fast that she looked like a little red streak. The hound was close at her heels, and he was so eager to catch her that he didn’t notice either the bridge ahead of him or the train behind him.
But Bowser the Hound could not run as fast as Granny Fox! When she reached the other side of the bridge, he wasn’t even halfway across, and right behind him, whistling for him to get out of the way, was the train.
The hound gave one frightened yelp, and jumped down into the river below, which carried him far downstream before he could swim ashore.
“Now you know why I wanted you to learn to cross a bridge. It’s a very nice way of getting rid of dogs,” said Granny Fox, as she climbed up beside Reddy.
George Gets Lost
Once there was a lady who lived alone with her cat, George. She loved George very much. She lived in the city, and in the evenings George would sit outside with her on the fire escape while she read with a flashlight and listened to the night sounds.
One evening, the lady went inside for a moment to get a drink, and when she came back, George was gone. Had George followed her inside? The lady looked everywhere, but George was gone. She decided that he must have jumped down off of the fire escape, and she looked everywhere in the neighborhood. She also asked everyone she say, “Have you seen my cat, George?”
A few days later, she was out looking once again, and she heard a soft meow. It was George! He was inside a storm drain, looking out at her from between the bars. The lady called Animal Rescue and they came to get George. But by the time they arrived, George was gone. They began searching at all of the storm grates in the area. Every time they saw George, they took off the grate, but each time, by the time they got it off, George would be gone. They were going to have to drive George to one grate, and hope to trap him.
They put a trap at the bottom of one of the grates. The trap contained food and fresh water, and it would not hurt George. Then they removed grate after grate, slowly forcing George to move closer and closer to where the trap was located. Finally, George found the trap. The hungry cat went inside the trap to get something to eat. George was saved!
The lady was so happy to have George back again, and George was glad to be home. He and the lady resumed their comfortable life together, but George didn’t ever go out on the fire escape again!
Saving the Birds
One day in spring four men were riding on horseback along a country road. These men were lawyers, and they were going to the next town to attend court.
There had been a rain, and the ground was very soft. Water was dripping from the trees, and the grass was wet.
The four lawyers rode along, one behind the other, for the pathway was narrow, and the mud on each side of it was deep. They rode slowly and talked and laughed and were very jolly.
As they were passing through a grove of small trees, they heard a great fluttering over their heads and a feeble chirping in the grass by the roadside.
“Stith! stith! stith!” came the sound from the leafy branches above them. “Cheep! cheep! cheep!” came the sound from the wet grass.
“What is the matter here?” asked the first lawyer, whose name was Speed.
“Oh, it's only some old robins,” said the second lawyer, whose name was Hardin. “The storm has blown two of the little ones out of the nest. They are too young to fly, and the mother bird is making a great fuss about it.”
“What a pity! They'll die down there in the grass,” said the third lawyer, whose name I forget. “Oh, well! They're nothing but birds,” said Mr. Hardin. “Why should we bother?”
“Yes, why should we?” asked Mr. Speed. The three men, as they passed, looked down and saw the little birds fluttering in the cold, wet grass. They saw the mother robin flying about and crying to her mate. Then they rode on, talking and laughing as before. In a few minutes, they had forgotten about the birds. The fourth lawyer, whose name was Abraham Lincoln, stopped. He got down from his horse and very gently took the little ones up in his big warm hands.
They did not seem frightened. They chirped softly as if they knew they were safe.
“Never mind, my little fellows,” said Mr. Lincoln. “I will put you back in your own cozy little bed.” Then he looked up to find the nest from which they had fallen. It was high, much higher than he could reach.
But Mr. Lincoln could climb. He had climbed many a tree when he was a boy. He put the birds softly, one by one, into their warm little home. Two other baby birds were there that had not fallen out. They all cuddled down together and were very happy.
Soon the three lawyers who had ridden ahead stopped at a spring to give their horses water. “Where is Lincoln?” asked one.
They were surprised to find that he was not with them.
“Do you remember those birds?” asked Mr. Speed. “It is very likely he has stopped to take care of them.” In a few minutes, Mr. Lincoln joined them. His shoes were covered with mud; he had torn his coat on the thorny tree. “Hello, Abraham!” said Mr. Hardin. “Where have you been?”
“I stopped a minute to give those birds to their mother,” he answered.
“Well, we always thought you were a hero,” said Mr. Speed. “Now we know it.”
Then all three of them laughed heartily. They thought it so foolish that a strong man should take so much trouble just for some worthless young birds.
“Gentlemen,” said Mr. Lincoln, “I could not have slept tonight if I had left those helpless little robins to perish in the wet grass.”
Abraham Lincoln later became very famous as a lawyer and statesman. He was elected president and became one of the greatest Americans of all time.
A fisherman caught a little golden fish. He took pity on the little fish, and let him go. In return, the fish promised that he would come back if the fisherman ever needed help. The fisherman’s wife was angry that he had let the fish go, because they had no other food. She told him to go ask the fish for food. So the fisherman went back to the seashore and called to the golden fish. He told the fish that they had no food, and when he got home there was food on the table.
The Bull was Right
Once there was a boy who was always reading a book.
He lived on a farm with his three brothers, but he did not play in the barn, or go fishing, or help out with the animals like his brothers did. The boy spent all of his free time sitting on the porch with his nose in a book. If he had to walk somewhere on the farm, he read while he was walking. The old hog, who had been on several farms before, and who knew young boys well, often shook his head in wonder.
“That is not a normal boy,” the old hog told his friends the bull and the turkey.”
The bull was not so sure. “That must be a very special thing that the boy has,” the bull said. “If the boy has to have it with him all of the time.”
The hog only scoffed. “I doubt it,” he said.
“Every boy loves a farm,” the bull insisted. “Every boy loves animals.
There must be something about those books that we don’t understand.” That gave the turkey an idea. “Why don’t we find out for ourselves?”
she suggested.
The next afternoon, they got their opportunity. The whole family piled into the car and drove away. The animals watched them go. As usual, the smallest boy had his nose in a book. When the family was gone, the animals went into the house and looked around for more of the things that the boy was always carrying. They found shelves and shelves of them in his room. The bull picked up a book. The hog picked up a book. The turkey picked up a book. They all sat down and stared at their books. After a little while, the bull said, “See, I told you so!”
“I don’t get it,” the turkey said. “There’s nothing in here but gibberish.” “Of course there isn’t,” the hog said. “I was right!”
But the bull was still looking at his book. He turned page after page with his thick hoof. Curious, the turkey looked over into the bull’s book. Then the hog looked over, too. The bull’s book was full of colorful pictures of animals, much like themselves.
“I told you so!” the bull said, smugly. “The boy is always reading about us!”
First Day
Here we go again, I thought, the first day of fourth grade. I always got a little nervous on the first day of school. I knew a lot of the other kids who would be in my class, and I had heard that the teacher was nice. There would still be a lot of new things, though. We would have new rules and new routines. We would have new information to learn in all of the subject areas. There would also be some new things that I wouldn’t expect, like maybe they moved the classes to different hallways. It was exciting, too, but that didn’t mean I wasn’t anxious.
We lined up outside, and for the first week the teachers held up signs with their names to help us find the right spot to line up. I knew where the fourth graders lined up, and quickly spotted the name “Mrs. Richardson” on one of the signs. She would be my new teacher for the year. As I got in line, I said hello to the friends I hadn’t seen all summer. Mrs. Richardson walked down the line, introducing herself to her new students.
She stuck out her hand and said, “Hi, I’m Mrs. Richardson. What’s your name?”
“Allison,” I answered, and shook her hand.
“It’s nice to meet you, Allison. How was your summer?”
“It was good. I got to go to the pool a lot,” I said.
“That’s great, Allison. Thanks for speaking in complete sentences! That shows me that your writing is probably very nice,” complimented Mrs. Richardson before she moved on to the next student. It felt great to be complimented by my new teacher!
As we entered the classroom, Mrs. Richardson showed us where to put our supplies. Then we gathered on the carpet.
“Our class needs to work together very closely in order to complete the many exciting projects we’re going to do this year. You’ll be working with each other frequently, so I want to make sure we’re all on the same page. I want to know what is important to you, what you value, in your classroom, teacher, classmates, and yourself. Please take a minute and think to yourself about your values.” We all sat quietly. Then Mrs. Richardson gave us a partner, asked us to introduce ourselves to each other, and asked us to share our thoughts with each other. The ideas my partner and I came up with were respect, honesty, teamwork, and fairness.
After sharing with our partner, Mrs. Richardson asked two pairs to work together to decide on three values and write them down. Our group chose respect, cooperation, and fairness. When the groups were done, each group had a chance to present their ideas, and we voted on which three we would use as our classroom values. I liked how we worked together to choose the values that would guide our classroom!
George Washington and His Hatchet
When George Washington was quite a little boy, his father gave him a red hatchet. It was bright and new, and George took great delight in going around and chopping things with it.
He ran into the garden, and there he saw a tree which seemed to say to him: “Come and cut me down!”
George had often seen his father's men chop down the great trees in the forest, and he thought that it would be fun to see a tree fall with a crash to the ground. So he set to work with his little hatchet, and, as the tree was a very small one, it did not take long to come down.
Soon after that, his father came home.
“Who has been cutting my fine young cherry tree?” he cried. “It was the only tree of its kind in this country, and it cost me a great deal of money.”
He was very angry when he came into the house.
“If I only knew who cut down that cherry tree,” father cried, “I would—yes, I would”—
“Father!” cried little George. “I will tell you the truth about it. I chopped the tree down with my hatchet.”
His father forgot his anger.
“George,” he said, and he took the little fellow in his arms, “George, I am glad that you told me about it. I would rather lose a dozen cherry trees than hear you tell one lie.”
The magician took off his stovepipe hat and placed it on the table. He waved his hands over the hat and said, "Alakazam! Alakazoo!" A small group of people was watching the magician perform on a sidewalk. The magician reached deep into the hat. He pulled out his fist and slowly opened it. There was a tiny foam ball in his hand. He held up one finger, and then he closed his fist again. This time when he opened it, there were three foam balls. The people in the crowd gasped.
Nikola Tesla was an inventor and physicist who is best remembered for his contributions to the AC power system and radio, but he may have also built a death ray. At a 1937 luncheon in his honor, Tesla claimed to have created a weapon that could shoot a concentrated beam of energy capable of bringing down fleets of airplanes. He further claimed to have built, demonstrated, and used this weapon. When Tesla entered negotiations with the U.S., the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union to sell his device, Tesla claimed that one of these parties had sent people to break into his room and steal his invention, but that this theft was impossible since the blueprint for the weapon was entirely in his mind. Unfortunately, Tesla died with the blueprint in his mind before anyone could get one. On second thought, maybe that’s not such a bad thing.
Tiego and Tierra sat on the cliffs with their feet dangling from the edge. They were watching the sunset and thinking of the great battles behind them. They weren't talking, only exchanging looks, but their looks were packed with meaning. Tiego knew Tierra loved him, and Tierra knew that Tiego loved her. True mutual love like theirs is a rare and beautiful thing. They considered themselves lucky.
The shadows grew long in the valley. A wolf howled. A man riding on horseback dug his spurs into the side of his steed. "Giddy up, old girl," he said. The horse rode with explosive speed. About twenty feet behind him was a group of men. They were also riding horses. One of them was standing up in his saddle. He wore a headdress decorated with feathers. The feathered man nimbly grabbed an arrow from a quiver on his back. He notched the arrow and drew back the bowstring. He let out a war cry along with the arrow.
The parade marched down the street. It was led by a caped drummer. He set a stately pace and tapped the accompanying rhythm. A marching band followed behind him, matching his pace. Behind the band were floats of all sizes and designs. Children and adults were riding on the floats, tossing out penny candies, streamers, and plastic prizes. The street was lined with people. The noises of revelry filled the streets.
The Gorlak raiders surrounded Bruce Hand. The one with the red eye said, "Now we have you, Bruce Hand. Give us the key to your adventure Jeep." Bruce couldn't allow the Gorlak raiders to get their hands on such advanced technology, but they had him surrounded. Fear sank through his heart. Suddenly he had an idea. "Ok," he said, "here's the key." Bruce activated the plasma grenade in his pocket and tossed it at the red-eyed Gorlak raider.
Do you love robots? Do you love saving money? If so, you're going to love Bob's Robot Emporium. Getting to Bob's is easy. If you are coming from the west, just head east on route 272 until you get to route 47. Head south on route 47 until you see the sign for Bob's Robot Emporium. You can't miss it. If you are coming from the other way, head west on route 272 west until you get to route 47, then head south. You are going to love the fabulous selection and low prices at Bob's and remember: if you didn't get it from Bob's, then it might exterminate your family.

Beep, beep, beeeeeeeeep. The computer was going haywire. Scott read the message on the monitor. "Error 26: Resource Not Found." This made absolutely no sense to Scott. He continued troubleshooting, unplugging the drive and plugging it back into the computer, closing the program and reloading it, and shutting down the device and restarting it. None of this made any difference. Scott scratched his head. Well, I guess I'll have to recode this driver, Scott thought to himself, but this made Scott cringe. He felt that nothing was worse than writing driver code, except writing the driver code twice. Just then Dennis came in from the break room. He wasn’t scheduled to have a break at this time, but he knew that Scott would never notice, not when he was so entrenched in his work. Dennis quietly returned to his desk.
The Green Fox notched his arrow and pointed it at Sheriff Woodburn. The Sheriff had been in standoffs like this in the past. Sheriff Woodburn did not fear death and he wasn't going to give this masked bandit the privilege of seeing him cower. The Green Fox, however, wasn't going to take any chances with the Sheriff, whom he knew to be a crafty adversary. So the Green Fox said, "Put your hands in the sky, Sheriff." The Green Fox waited for the Sheriff to comply. If the Sheriff resisted this order, the Green Fox was prepared to loose the arrow.
Congratulations on purchasing Foo-Bar brand Brawn Bars. Foo-Bar brand Brawn Bars will give you a full day's worth of nutrition in a single bite sized bar. You are going to love Foo-Bar Brand Brawn Bars if you follow these precautions. Do not eat Foo-Bar brand Brawn Bars before swimming or your stomach may explode. Do not eat Foo-Bar brand Brawn Bars while drinking soda or your stomach may explode. Do not eat Foo-Bar brand Brawn Bars before, while, or after jogging or your stomach may explode. You're going to love the explosive power of Foo-Bar Bars!

April opened the escape hatch. She was afraid to jump, but she realized that the airship was sinking. She looked at Vince, who was strapping on his parachute. Vince locked eyes with her and then he realized the error in his conduct. "I'm sorry, April. That was ungentlemanly of me. Let me help you with yours." He proceeded to attach the other parachute to April's back. This made him feel a little better.
Galileo Galilei was an influential scientist and one of the early developers of the refracting telescope. In 1632 Galileo published a book called Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, in which he compared the Copernican view of a heliocentric universe, one where the sun is at the center, with the geocentric view, one in which the Earth is at the center. The Church took offense as to how Galileo portrayed the geocentric view using a character named Simplicio, which has undertones of simpleton in the Italian language, and he was put on trial before the Roman Inquisition. The Inquisition ordered Galileo to recant his ideas, his book was banned, he was forbidden from publishing anything else, and he was sentenced to house arrest for the rest of his life. I guess it’s not just what you say that’s important but how you say it.
The sound of lawnmowers roared across the suburb. Nick rose from his bed and slowly walked to the bathroom. He brushed his teeth and threw on a pair of clothes. Then he ran upstairs. His mom was working by the oven. "Care for some eggs, Nick?" Nick smiled and said, "Yeah, that'd be great, Mom." His mom smiled at him and cracked a few more eggs into a large glass bowl. She stirred the eggs while he put his head down on the table. "Don't fall back asleep, Nick," she said. He chuckled.
Red spun the barrel of his six shooter with his palm and said, "Well, is we going to do it or not?" Texas Joe checked the shells in his shotgun and spit his chaw onto the dusty road, "Yeah, let's do it quick, before the law starts sniffing round." So the two dangerous criminals walked into the ice cream shop and ordered a banana milkshake. "Two straws," said Red. The clerk put a second straw into the creamy confection. This pleased Red. He loved sharing with his friends. Texas Joe licked his lips in anticipation. Banana milkshakes were his favorite.
Ray and His Kite
Ray was a silly boy. You will think so too when you have read this story. Ray liked to play with the boys at school well enough; but he liked to be alone under the shade of some tree reading a fairy tale or dreaming daydreams better. There was one activity that he liked as well as his companions; that was flying a kite.
One day when he was flying his kite, he said to himself, “I wonder if anybody ever tried to fly a kite at night. It seems to me it would be nice. But then, if it is dark, the kite cannot be seen. What if I should fasten a light to it, though? That would make it show. I'll try it tonight.”
As soon as it was dark, without saying a word to anybody, he took his kite and lantern and went to a large, open lot a distance from his home. “Well,” thought he, “this is strange. How lonely and still it seems without any other boys around! I am going to fly my kite
anyway.” So he tied the lantern, which was made of tin punched full of small holes, to the tail of his kite.
Then he pitched the kite, and, after several attempts, succeeded in making it rise.
Up it went, higher and higher, as Ray let out the string. When the string was all unwound, he tied it to a fence, and then he stood and gazed at his kite as it floated high up in the air.
While Ray was enjoying his kite, some people who were out on the street in the village saw a strange light in the sky. They gathered in groups to watch it. Now it was still for a few seconds; then it seemed to be jumping up and down; then it made long sweeps back and forth through the air.
“What can it be?” asked one person. “How strange,” said another. “It cannot be a comet because comets have tails,” said a third. “Perhaps it's a big firefly,” said another. At last some of the men decided to find out what this strange light was—whether it was a hobgoblin dancing in the air, or something dropping from the sky. So off they started to get as close to it as they could.
While this was taking place, Ray, who had gotten tired of standing and was sitting on a fence behind a tree. He could see the men as they approached, but they did not see him. When they were directly under the light, and saw what it was, they looked at each other and said while laughing, “This is some boy's trick, and it has fooled us nicely. Let us keep the secret and have our share of the joke.” Then they laughed again and went back to the village. Some of the people there had not yet found out what that strange light was.
When the men had gone, Ray thought it was time for him to go, so he wound up his string, picked up his kite and lantern, and went home. His mother had been wondering where he was. When she heard what he had been doing, she hardly knew whether to laugh or scold, but I think she laughed and told him that it was time for him to go to bed.
How to Find the Theme of a Text
Reading is fun! In addition to reading for fun, though, we can also analyze texts to learn more from the texts and more about the texts. One way we can do this with fiction books, passages, or poems is by identifying the theme.
The theme of a book is the “big idea” that runs throughout the text, connecting the characters and events. Many times, it has to do with what the main character learned over the course of the story. Most of the time, the theme of a book is not written out in the words, you have to use clues in the text to infer it. Themes can be ideas like friendship, bravery, love, honesty, good versus evil, or family. The theme might not be able to be said in just one word, though. It might be an idea such as, “Be careful what you wish for.” There may also be more than one theme in a story.
To start finding the theme, first you need to make sure you’ve read the entire text. Characters change throughout the story, so what you might think is the theme in the beginning might not be true at the end!
After reading the text, summarize the plot. What important events occurred during the story? What was the problem? How did the problem get resolved? How did the character(s) change? What did the character(s) learn?
Use the answers from those questions to see if you can spot a pattern. Did a lot of the plot revolve around friendship? Did many characters resolve problems with their families? Did hard work pay off for the main character? Did the main character learn the importance of fairness?
Once you’ve identified a “big idea,” go through the text to find evidence that supports this idea throughout the entire text. If there was only one small problem with a character’s family, then “family” might not be the theme of the text. You might find more evidence for friendship or bravery.
Now you are ready to find the theme of books, passages, and poems! Grab your favorite book and see if you can identify the theme.
Granny Fox wanted Reddy Fox to learn to run across the railroad bridge, but Reddy was scared. So Granny Fox cried out that she heard Bowser the Hound coming toward them. Reddy was even more scared of Bowser the Hound, so he followed Granny across the bridge. But Bowser had not been there at all. Granny had tricked Reddy Fox into running across the bridge!
Amelia Earhart
Amelia Earhart was born on July 24th, 1897 in Kansas. Amelia was an adventurous and athletic kid. She and her sister collected insects and frogs, and she even hunted rats in her father’s barn with a rifle. Her first “flight” was on a homemade roller coaster ― which crashed. But she wasn’t thinking about flying then; not even when she saw one of the Wright Brothers’ first airplanes at the Iowa State Fair.
After high school, Amelia studied to become a nurse’s aid. Then she studied to become a mechanic, but returned to study medicine again. It was around that time that she took her first plane flight at an air show in California, and this time she was hooked. She knew she wanted to fly.
She worked hard to save enough money for flying lessons, and she eventually purchased her own bright yellow plane, which she nicknamed “Canary.” She got her pilot’s license and set a new altitude record for female pilots at 14,000 feet.
When she was 31 years old, Amelia teamed up with pilot Bill Stultz and co-pilot Slim Gordon, and flew across the Atlantic Ocean as the navigator. She was the first woman to participate in a flight across the Atlantic. She was a hero, and she was invited to meet President Calvin Coolidge at the White House. But Amelia was ambitious. She wanted to fly across the Atlantic again; this time, as the pilot, alone.
It was a dangerous flight. The weather was bad, and her windshield and wings were covered with ice. She succeeded in crossing the Atlantic, although she had to cut the flight short, landing in Northern Ireland. She was recognized with many awards, and she was the first woman to be awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross by Congress.
Amelia continued to fly. She also gave speeches about flying and spoke about women’s rights. But she was also preparing for her next adventure: she planned to be the first woman to fly around the world. In 1937, with Fred Noonan as her navigator, Amelia took off from Miami, Florida. She got as far as the New Guinea in the South Pacific. But when they took off from New Guinea on July 2nd, intending to fly to Howland Island in the Pacific Ocean, they disappeared.
The U.S. government searched for the plane for weeks, but it was never found, and no one has ever known for sure what happened to them.
Picture Day
Ellie hated family picture day.
“Picture day is too serious,” she complained, as her mom made her
put on her best dress.
“Picture day is boring,” she whined, while her mom combed her hair. “Picture day means there is no time to play!” she cried, as her
mother helped Ellie and her brother into the car.
Ellie sulked all the way to the mall. She drug her feet as they walked to the picture studio. She slumped down in her chair in the waiting room, and when the photographer called them to get their picture taken, Ellie scowled at her.
“I hate getting my picture taken,” she said, as the photographer asked her to sit on a stool. The photographer had a puppet on her hand.
“I hate taking pictures,” the puppet replied in a high, squeaky voice. “The people I take pictures of are always in bad moods! They never want to be here! They never smile! They never do anything that I’m not expecting them to do.”
Ellie smiled a little. The puppet’s voice was silly, and Ellie thought that it was silly for a puppet to be mad at HER.
The photographer took a picture of Ellie. Then she took another. “This is boring,” the puppet whined. “This girl’s frown is making me feel sad.”
Ellie wanted to do something to surprise the puppet. So suddenly she stuck out of her tongue.
“Whoa!” the puppet squealed, bouncing up and down. “I didn’t see THAT coming!”
The puppet was so funny that Ellie started to laugh. She laughed and laughed and laughed while the photographer took her picture.
“What a perfect smile this girl has!” the photographer said, and her puppet agreed.
The Whistle
Two hundred years ago in Boston, there lived a little boy whose name was Benjamin Franklin. On the day that he was seven years old, his mother gave him a few pennies.
He looked at the bright, yellow pieces and said, “What shall I do with these coppers, Mother?” It was the first money that he had ever had.
“You may buy something if you wish,” said his mother.
“And then will you give me more?” he asked. His mother shook her head and said, “No, Benjamin. I cannot give you any more. So you must be careful not to spend your money foolishly.” The little fellow ran into the street. He heard
the pennies jingle in his pocket. How rich he was!
Boston is now a great city, but, at that time, it was only a little town. There were not many stores.
As Benjamin ran down the street, he wondered what he should buy. Should he buy candy? He hardly knew how it tasted. Should he buy a pretty toy? He did not own a toy. In his family there were fourteen boys and girls older than he and two little sisters who were younger.
What a big family it was! Their father was a poor man. No wonder the lad had never owned a toy. Benjamin had not gone far when he met an older boy who was blowing a whistle.
“I wish I had that whistle,” he said.
The older boy looked at him and blew it again. Oh, what a pretty sound it made!
“I have some pennies,” said Benjamin. He held them in his hand, and showed them to the boy. “You may have them if you will give me the whistle.”
“All of them?” “Yes, all of them.”
“Well, it's a deal,” said the boy, and he gave the whistle to Benjamin and took the pennies. Little Benjamin Franklin was very happy, for he was only seven years old. He ran home as fast as he could, blowing the whistle as he ran.
“See, Mother,” he said, “I have bought a whistle.” “How much did you pay for it?”
“All the pennies you gave me.”
“Oh, Benjamin!” One of his brothers asked to see the whistle.
“Well, well,” his brother said, “you've paid a dear price for this thing. It's only a penny whistle, and a poor one at that.”
“You might have bought half a dozen such whistles with the money I gave you,” said his mother. The little boy saw what a mistake he had made. The whistle did not please him anymore. He threw it upon the floor and began to cry.
“Never mind, my child,” said his mother very kindly. “You are only a very little boy, and you will learn a great deal as you grow bigger. The lesson you have learned today is never to pay too dear for a whistle.”
Benjamin Franklin lived to be a very old man, but he never forgot that lesson.
Every boy and girl should remember the name of Benjamin Franklin. He was a great thinker and a great doer, and he helped to make our country free. His life was such that no man could ever say, “Ben Franklin has wronged me.”
Granny Fox Gives Reddy a Scare
Reddy Fox lived with Granny Fox in the Green Meadows. Granny Fox was the wisest, slyest fox in all the countryside, and she thought it was time that Reddy started to learn some things that every fox should know. So she taught him how to steal Farmer John’s chickens without waking Bowser the Hound. And she taught him all kinds of ways to fool a dog.
Today Granny Fox was taking Reddy through the Green Forest. Reddy had never been that far from home, and he wondered where they were going. They came to a railroad track, and trotted along on it for a while until they came to a long bridge. At the edge of the bridge, Reddy looked down at the river far below. It made him feel dizzy. When he looked up, Granny Fox was running lightly across the bridge.
“Come across,” Granny Fox called to Reddy. But Reddy was afraid. He was afraid to put one food on that long bridge. He was afraid he would fall through it and into the water below. Granny Fox ran back to him. She sat down beside him. “Shame on you,” she said. “What are you afraid of? Just don’t look down. Come on. Just follow me.”
But Reddy couldn’t do it. He just sat there beside Granny and let out a little whimper. Suddenly, Granny Fox sprang to her feet, as if in great fright.
“Bowser the Hound, Reddy! Come, Reddy, come!” And she started across the bridge as fast as she could go.
Reddy didn’t stop to look. He didn’t stop to think. His one idea was to get away from Bowser the Hound. “Wait, Granny! Wait!” he cried, and started after her as fast as he could run. Before he knew it, he was on the other side. He looked around to see where Bowser the Hound might be, but he was nowhere to be seen. Could he have fallen off the bridge?
“Where is Bowser the Hound?” cried Reddy.
“Why, he is home in Farmer Brown’s yard,” replied Granny Fox.
Reddy stared at her for a minute. Then he began to understand. Granny Fox had simply scared him into running across the bridge. He felt silly, very silly indeed.
“Now we’ll run back again, said Granny Fox. And this time Reddy did.
Sun, Stars and Moon

In the sky, you can see the sun, stars, and the moon.
The sun is up during the day. It is very hot. The sun gives us light and heat. Plants need the sun to grow.
We can see the stars at night. They give off light and heat, like the sun. That is because the sun is a star, too! There are more stars than we can count.
Some people see shapes in the stars. A group of stars that make a shape is called a constellation. Have you ever seen the Big Dipper? That is a constellation!
The moon is out at night. Sometimes we can still see it during the day! It does not give off light and heat.
Susy Brown

Susy Brown is a good girl. Some of her friends were going to the woods to pick berries, and Susy wanted to go with them. However, when Susy came home from school, she found her mother tired and worn out from her work.
Susy took the baby and said she would stay at home and let her mother rest.
When the girls came home with their berries, they all gave Susy some. Everybody loves Susy.
Dessert Time!

Yum! It is time for dessert.
First, Tim gets a cookie. Next, Jan gets some cake. Then, Ben gets a donut. Last, Deb gets some pie.
Oh no! There is none left for Sam. What will he do?
First, Tim shares his cookie. Next, Jan shares her cake. Then, Ben shares his donut. Last, Deb shares her pie.
Yum! Sam and his friends are happy. It is time for dessert!
Sick Day
Hank was home sick from school. Sam called him after school.
“Where were you today?” Sam asked. “I had to stay home,” Hank said. “Why?”
“I had company today.”
“What company?” Sam said. “Icky germs!” Hank told him.
Turkey Sub
If Joe could only eat one thing For the whole rest of his days
He would choose a turkey sub With a whole lot of mayonnaise.
He’d pile it high with turkey
And top it off with cheese
And he wouldn’t share a single bite Even if his friends said please!
"Hanukkah" comes from the Hebrew root "Hanokh," inaugurate. A menorah is lit on all eight nights of Hanukkah to commemorate the rededication of the ancient temple in Jerusalem, when the last remaining container of undefiled oil miraculously lasted for eight nights. The menorah also celebrates the triumph of freedom over persecution, the events which took place over 2,300 years ago in the land of Judea, which is now Israel. Hanukkah begins on the 25th day of the Hebrew month of Kislev, but the starting date on the western calendar varies from year to year.

In America, families celebrate Chanukah at home. They give and receive gifts, decorate the house, entertain friends and family, eat special foods, and light the holiday menorah.
The Astronomy Project
Mrs. Lindsey was everyone’s favorite teacher at Lincoln Elementary School. She was known for her entertaining teaching techniques. One day she walked into the classroom and announced to the class that they would all be seeing stars in their futures. She then asked, “Does anyone know what astronomy is?”
Olivia raised her hand and said, “I’m a Libra.”
Mrs. Lindsey responded, “I can understand why you would think that astrological signs are part of astronomy because astrology and astronomy both deal with celestial beings. In fact, many of the constellations in the sky have given their names to astrological signs”
Mrs. Lindsey then went on to explain that astrology is the belief that the location and movement of stars and planets affect the way events transpire on earth, which is why horoscopes are based on astrological signs. Astronomy, however, is a branch of science that deals with celestial bodies, the universe as a whole and space. “We are going to be learning about astronomy in this unit, and that is why you will be seeing stars in your future.”
“I love looking at the stars at night,” said Olivia.
When Mrs. Lindsey asked who else liked looking at stars, everyone in the class raised their hands. She then passed out star charts and asked the class to look at the sky that night and record the visible constellations.
The next day in class, everyone was super excited to share their observations.
“I saw Ursa Minor,” announced Andrew enthusiastically. “So did I.” said Olivia, “It looks like a dot-to-dot ladle.”
“That’s great,” responded Mrs. Lindsey, “and did you know that Ursa Minor is also called the Little Dipper because it looks like a ladle?”
“Isn’t there a Big Dipper too?” asked Tim.
“Yes, there is, and it is called Ursa Major,” said Mrs. Lindsey.
Mrs. Lindsey then asked the class if they would like to become part of the galaxy. They all agreed that that sounded like a fun idea, but they wondered how it would work. Mrs.
Lindsey explained that she would assign each student a constellation, and that they would each make a poster board illustration of their constellation over the weekend. “From
there on,” she said, “it will be a surprise.” She passed out one poster board and one glow-in-the-dark marker to each student and wished them all a good weekend.
When the students got to class Monday morning, they were brimming with enthusiasm. Mrs. Lindsey used a poster board to demonstrate to the students how she wanted them to punch two holes at the top of their poster boards and then weave a piece of string through the holes to form a necklace so that they could hang their constellations around their necks and wear them.
After the students had completed constructing their wearable constellations, they donned them and waited to see what would happen next.
Mrs. Lindsey arranged the students around each other in a similar fashion to the way the constellations appeared on the constellation chart. Next she closed the blinds and turned off the lights. She asked them to circle around the class room while making individual motions as they went. They had now become the constellations dancing in the nighttime sky.
“Awesome! We can all see each other glowing and moving around just like the stars do,” the students said in unison.
All of the students agreed that it was their favorite lesson so far that year. They especially liked the fact that Mrs. Lindsey had recorded their version of the constellations so they could watch it over again and show it to their parents.
A Ship in a Storm
Did you ever go far out into the great ocean? How beautiful it is to be out at sea when the sea is smooth and still!
When a storm approaches, the scene changes. The heavy, black clouds appear in the distance and throw a deep, long shade over the world of waters. The captain and sailors soon see in the clouds the dark signs.All hands are then set to work to take in sail.
The hoarse notes of the captain, speaking through his trumpet, are echoed across the ship. They’ll be happy if all is made snug before the gale strikes the vessel.
At last, the gale comes like a vast moving mountain of air. It strikes the ship. The vessel heaves and groans under the dreadful weight and struggles to escape through the foaming waters. If she is far out at sea, she will be likely to ride out the storm in safety. But if the wind is driving her upon the shore, the poor ship may hit the rocks.
Once there was a ship in a storm. Some of her masts were already broken, and her sails lost. While the wind was raging, and the billows were dashing against her, the cry was heard, “A man has fallen overboard!”
The rescue boat was lowered quickly, and it was soon seen bounding on its way over the mountain of waves. At one moment, the boat seemed lifted to the skies, and the next, it sank down and appeared to be lost beneath the waves!
Finally, the man was found. He had almost drowned, but he was taken on board, and now they made for the ship. The ship rolled so dreadfully that it seemed certain the boat wouldn’t make it to the ship. Now, what should they do?
The captain told one of the men to go aloft and throw down a rope. This was tied fast to the boat, and when the sea was somewhat calm, the rescue boat was hoisted and landed on the ship with a dreadful crash. It was a desperate way of getting on board, but fortunately everyone was safe.
On the dangerous points along our seacoast are lighthouses which can be seen far out at sea and serve as guides to ships. Sometimes the fog is so dense that these lights cannot be seen, but most lighthouses have great fog bells or fog horns; some of the latter are made to sound by steam and can be heard for a long distance. These bells and horns keep sounding as long as the fog lasts.
There are also many life-saving stations along the coast where trained men are ready with lifeboats. When a ship is driven ashore they at once go to the rescue of those on board, and this way many valuable lives are saved.
A sailor’s life is a very hard one. Our young friends owe a debt of gratitude to those whose home is upon the great waters, and who bring them the luxuries of other countries.
Simple tissues are also referred to as ground tissues. They include the tissues known as parenchyma, collenchyma, and sclerenchyma. Parenchyma tissue is composed of parenchyma cells, which are found throughout the plant. They are particularly abundant in the stems and roots. The leaf cells that carry out photosynthesis are also parenchyma cells. Unlike many other plant cells, parenchyma cells are alive at maturity and retain the ability to divide. They perform many functions. Some are specialized for photosynthesis, others for storage, and still others for secretion and transport. An important class of parenchyma cells makes growth tissues called meristem and cambium. These tissues give rise to all other tissues in the plant body.

Like parenchyma cells, collenchyma cells are alive at maturity. They differ from parenchyma cells in that they have thick cell walls. Collenchyma tissue is most often found in the form of strands or cylinders of cells in stems and leaves. The thick cell walls of collenchyma cells provide support to these plant structures. The strands of tissue in celery are collenchyma tissues.
The idea of using medicinal plants to treat livestock is not new. Many of the active ingredients in chemically manufactured drugs were originally derived from plant compounds (e.g., the pyrethroids). Also, in many developing countries, medicinal plants are still being used on a regular basis. (The use of plants and traditional methods for treating animals is called ethnoveterinary medicine .) There is a renewed interest, especially in developed countries, in using plants to treat livestock, pets, and humans. Why?

Many people believe that plants are less toxic and safer than manufactured drugs.
Many people believe that plants are more natural than manufactured drugs.
Medicinal plants can be made at home and are less expensive than manufactured drugs.
In developing countries, medicinal plants often are more accessible than manufactured drugs.
The big questions are: Are medicinal plants effective for livestock? Are they really safe? Of the hundreds of plants used in ethnopharmacology, very few have been researched for their efficacy and toxicity. In the U.S., medicinal plants for humans are registered with the Food and Drug Administration. Medicinal plants for livestock currently are not sold on a wide scale in the U.S. Based on the U.S. Department of Agriculture regulations, medicinal plants for livestock must meet the same stringent requirements as other animal drugs if they are to be registered and approved for use in food producing animals.
The 1960 Winter Games were held in Squaw Valley, USA. The use of this site is a story that will last for years to come.

It all began on December 26th, 1954 when Alexander Cushing spotted an article in the San Francisco Chronicle stating that Reno, NV and Anchorage, AK had submitted bids to hold the 1960 Winter Olympics. Holding such an acclaimed event in Squaw Valley, USA met with great ridicule at first. Cushing with the support of Curly Grieves, the Sports Editor for the San Francisco Examiner, soon announced Squaw Valley's bid for the Games.

Cushing met the IOC with the help of a diverse and knowledgeable entourage including Pulitzer Prize-winning Chicago Daily News columnist George Weller, and French war hero Joe Marillac. Cushing even had a 3,000 pound model of Squaw Valley built to scale in order to convince the committee to take him seriously.

On a cold spring day in 1955, in Paris, France, Alexander Cushing convinced the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to select Squaw Valley, USA as the site for the VIII Olympic Winter Games. Many to this day still wonder how a town with no mayor, and a ski resort with just one chairlift, two rope tows, and a fifty-room lodge could instantly become a site of international distinction.
Lightning and Thunder
Long ago, people made up myths and legends to explain
what causes lightning and thunder. Having an explanation for something can make it less frightening. Lightning and thunder can be very frightening especially because they often happen just before a big rainstorm.
We now know what causes lightning and thunder. Have you ever noticed that you often hear thunder just a few seconds after you see lightning? This is because it is lightning that causes thunder. If the storm is far away from you, there are a few seconds between the lightning and the thunder. If the storm is close to you, you hear the thunder almost at the same time that you see the lightning.
Lightning is caused by electricity building up inside a cloud. When a large mass of warm air and a large mass of cold air come together high above the earth, it causes a lot of movement in the air. The cold air moves down while the warm air moves up, which creates something like friction. An electric charge builds up in the clouds. The charge gets stronger and stronger until it explodes—and the LIGHTNING flashes.
When the lightning flashes, the air around it becomes unbelievably hot—five times hotter than the surface of the sun!
The heated air expands into the cooler air around it, causing the shockwave that we call thunder.
Even though we usually see lightning before we hear the thunder that it causes, the two events happen just a fraction of a second apart. In addition, both light and sound travel through the air in waves. However, light waves travel faster than sound waves, so the light waves from the explosion get to us first.
A tiny version of an event similar to lightning and thunder can happen when you brush your feet along a carpet and then touch a doorknob. You can sometimes hear the little sizzle of mini-thunder, and see the flash of mini-lightning.
Sloths
Sloths are the slowest mammals on earth. It takes a full
minute for a sloth to move 6 feet across the ground. You probably couldn’t move that slowly if you tried! The sloth’s body is about 2 feet long. It has long legs, and curved claws that are 3 to 4 inches long. Their claws and their long legs help them climb trees and hang from tree branches. They spend almost their entire lives hanging from tree branches. The life of a sloth is not very exciting.
Sloths have a round head, small ears, a stubby tail, and sad-looking eyes set in a dark-colored “mask.” The shape of a sloth’s mouth makes it look like it is always smiling. It has extra bones in its neck that make it possible for it to turn its head almost all the way around. Sloths are very cute to look at, but they don’t put on much of a show.
Sloths are home to other plants and creatures. Tiny plants grow on the sloth’s fur, making the animals appear to be green. This green color makes the sloths almost invisible against the green leaves of the trees they live in. Moths and insects also live in the sloth’s fur. Maybe the sloths move so little and so seldom that the small creatures that live on them don’t even know they are animals.
Giant sloths the size of elephants once lived in many places on earth, including North America. Today, sloths can be found in the tropical forests of Central and South America. They eat leaves and berries. A sloth can stick its tongue out 12 inches. Maybe they developed this skill so they wouldn’t have to move to reach the tasty leaves and berries around their resting spot. Their main enemies are jaguars, eagles, and snakes. Many tropical forests are disappearing, along with the sloths that live there. It would be a sad thing if these fascinating little animals became extinct.
Antarctica is the coldest, windiest, driest and highest continent in the world. It is also the most isolated. This southernmost land of ice and snow, where for part of the year the sun doesn't rise and for another part, never sets, sits alone more than 2500 kilometres south of Hobart. Only one native warm-blooded animal remains on the Antarctic continent during the freezing winter--the emperor penguin. No human has ever made a permanent home in Antarctica. But people do visit--mostly scientists, support personnel, and tourists. To some it becomes a way of life and they may go back south many times over the years.
As sure as you're alive now, Peter Rabbit, some day I will catch you," snarled Reddy Fox, as he poked his black nose in the hole between the roots of the Big Hickory-tree which grows close to the Smiling Pool. "It is lucky for you that you were not one jump farther away from this hole."
Peter, safe inside that hole, didn't have a word to say, or, if he did, he didn't have breath enough to say it. It was quite true that if he had been one jump farther from that hole, Reddy Fox would have caught him. As it was, the hairs on Peter's funny white tail actually had tickled Reddy's back as Peter plunged frantically through the root-bound entrance to that hole. It had been the narrowest escape Peter had had for a long, long time. You see, Reddy Fox had surprised Peter nibbling sweet clover on the bank of the Smiling Pond, and it had been a lucky thing for Peter that that hole, dug long ago by Johnny Chuck's grandfather, had been right where it was. Also, it was a lucky thing that old Mr. Chuck had been wise enough to make the entrance between the roots of that tree in such a way that it could not be dug any larger.
Reddy Fox was too shrewd to waste any time trying to dig it larger. He knew there wasn't room enough for him to get between those roots. So, after trying to make Peter as uncomfortable as possible by telling him what he, Reddy, would do to him when he did catch him, Reddy trotted off across the Green Meadows. Peter remained where he was for a long time. When he was quite sure that it was safe to do so, he crept out and hurried, lipperty-lipperty-lip, up to the Old Orchard. He felt that that would be the safest place for him, because there were ever so many hiding places in the old stone wall along the edge of it.
Mule’s Thoughts

A silly little mule
Sat on a milking stool
And tried to write a letter to his father.
But he couldn’t find the ink,
So he said: “I rather think
This writing letters home is too much bother.”
A Puzzle a Day

Anna and her family love doing puzzles. Anna is best at little puzzles.
Anna and her brother work on medium size puzzles together. Anna’s brother likes puzzles with cars in them.
When the whole family does a puzzle, they do really big puzzles. It can take them a week to finish a really big puzzle. Last year they did a puzzle with 500 pieces!
Anna tries to finish one small puzzle a day by herself. Her puzzles have about 50 pieces.
They all glue their favorite puzzles together and frame them. The puzzles look so nice on the wall.
Ned and the Apples

Here, Ned, catch this apple in your hand. No, I will catch it in my hat.
Now I have it. What a big apple it is!
Let us take it to Mom.
Yes! She likes it. I will get her some more. We will take them to her in my hat.
Here is a very big apple! We will give her this one too.
Jack lives in a small town in Australia. The closest big city is an hour’s drive away. Jack looks forward to going to the city because when they drive through the countryside they almost always see kangaroos. Sometimes they even see a baby kangaroo riding in its mother’s pouch.
Jack knows all about kangaroos. A baby is called a joey, a mother is called a doe, and a father is called a boomer. A group of kangaroos is called a mob.
Once, Jack saw a kangaroo jump about three times its height. It was an amazing sight! He knows that when kangaroos are hopping along at high speed, they can go as fast as 40 miles per hour.
Jack also knows that even though kangaroos are fun to look at, you wouldn’t want to try to pet one. If a kangaroo thinks it is in danger, it just might lean back on its big tail and kick you with its back feet.
The Kitten
Mary found a kitten. The kitten was brown and gray and white. The kitten was lost.
“What a cute kitten!” said Mary. Mary took the kitten home.
“We cannot keep that kitten,” said Mary’s mom.
There was a knock on the door. It was Mr. Jones from next door.
“Have you seen a kitten?” Mr. Jones said. Mary showed Mr. Jones the kitten.
“Yes, that is my kitten,” said Mr. Jones.
“You can come play with my kitten whenever you want to, Mary!”
Charleston’s Kitten
Charleston wanted to have a pet of his very own. He thought and thought to decide what kind of pet he would like. Fish are colorful but he couldn’t hold a fish. A parakeet could perch on his finger but most of the time it would need to stay in its cage.
Charleston decided he wanted a pet with fur so when he hugged it he could feel the soft fur against his face. Charleston lived in an apartment with his parents. He was worried that a dog would bark and make too much noise. Charleston decided he wanted a kitten. His parents said they would get a kitten for him.
One day he came home from school to find a pretty little calico kitten. It was so pretty
because a calico cat has many colors. His kitten was white, black and butterscotch in
color. He named his kitten Whiskers. Charleston learned how to take care of his kitten. He made sure it had food and fresh water every day. His Mom bought cat food and kitty litter at the store for Whiskers. Charleston didn’t like cleaning the kitty litter box but his Mom told him it was important. So he kept the litter box clean.
Charleston liked playing with Whiskers. Kittens enjoy playing with simple toys. A paper bag, some string and Charleston as a playmate were enough to keep his kitten happy.
Conflict Resolution
Conflict resolution is a peaceful way of trying to solve a conflict with resolution. Both sides in the conflict explain what they feel happened to cause the conflict. The person who listens to both sides is called the mediator.
After both sides state what they feel happened to cause the conflict, they discuss ways to solve the conflict. They try to come up with a “resolution” that both sides agree to.
Communication throughout the entire conflict resolution process is always exchanged in a calm manner without anger. Everyone attempts to use good listening and attending skills while people are talking. If voices get too loud or it appears that someone is angry, the mediator’s role is to address this and have the people treat each other with respect.
After various suggestions are shared in how to mediate the conflict, discussion centers on the best solution. Conflict resolution can also be called dispute resolution. It is used in many environments to help solve disagreements in a peaceful way.
This is an example of how conflict resolution works in a school playground setting:
• Someone says that a student pushed them on the soccer field.
• The person accused as the “pusher” claims it was an accident.
• The person pushed gets the mediator.
• The mediator takes the two people who are upset somewhere in a quieter spot and away from others to talk.
• The mediator calms everyone down and lets them know that he understands their feelings.
• Each person describes what happened.
• The mediator asks for clarification if something is not clear.
• The mediator repeats what he heard so it is clear to everyone and /she identifies with those involved.
• The mediator asks for ideas to solve the problem.
• The two individuals offer ideas and solutions to the problem.
• The individuals discuss the ideas and solutions and come to some agreement on the solution.
• The mediator makes sure the individuals follow- through on the solution whether it is to say they are sorry, to shake hands or to play nicely together, etc.
• The mediator offers praise for solving the problem.
Conflict resolution can work in many settings and it can work with several individuals at once. In any event, it is worth trying to get at the heart of the matter by involving the peers themselves who have a concern. It encourages them to analyze what really happened, to share their feelings about the conflict, and to work together peacefully to solve the problem. Conflict resolution gives those involved a structure to use with a mediator to help reach an agreement. It allows onlookers to see a workable framework.
Hans received a bag of gold coins for the year’s work, and set off down the road. The bag was heavy, so he traded it for a horse. The horse threw him into a ditch, so he traded it for a cow. The cow kicked him when he tried to milk it, so he traded it for a goose. Then he traded the goose for a grindstone that was really just an ordinary stone. When he was getting a drink of water from the stream, he accidentally knocked his stone into the water. Hans jumped for joy because now he was free of all his problems!
You carefully walk through the dragon's lair, afraid to trigger any traps or disturb any sleeping things. Behind you is a rope bridge leading back the way you came. Ahead of you is a pile of gold and magical treasures larger than you could carry with one hundred horses and one hundred wagons. You grab a single gold coin from the pile and admire it. As you pick up the coin, you hear a snarling noise ahead of you. You drop the coin immediately.
The green ooze dripped slowly down the steps. We didn't have a Geiger counter with us, but if we had, I bet that it would have been beeping. I noticed Chris moving toward the ooze and said, "Chris, don't!" but it was too late. Chris dipped the front part of his shoe in the ooze and the ooze burned the sole off his shoe instantly. Then it melted his sock, and then it began to go to work on his foot. Vanessa began licking her lips. "I wonder what it tastes like," she said. I screamed, "No Vanessa! Don't!"
Grilling chicken is easy. First, give yourself plenty of time. If the temperature rises much past 350 degrees, you may burn your chicken. So, keep the temperature low, and give yourself plenty of time to cook the chicken. Set your burners on low and leave the chicken on the top rack. Flip your chicken every 15 to 20 minutes. During final twenty minutes of cooking, brush some barbeque sauce on your chicken. Now prepare to eat a delicious meal!
Larry held the fragile seed in his palm as though he were cradling a baby bird. He knew that the hopes of humanity very well hinged on this seed. He looked to Olga, his protector. She smiled at Larry. She was resting her heavy stone axe on her shoulder and watching him. Olga was happy to be taking a break from fighting, and she was even happier to see Larry take to his new role so well. "You are doing good, boy," she grunted at Larry. Larry smiled, pleased that she had said something nice for once.
Sheriff Wolf's hands were on his hips. He stood about ten feet back from the saloon and shouted, "Come on out, Bart. We've got a nice bowl of soup waiting for you at the jail house." Bart shouted back, "Call off your men, Sheriff, or I'm going to start shooting hostages." Bart cocked his weapon and pointed it at the piano player. The piano player started whimpering. Sheriff Wolf put his hands up in the air and said, "No need to do that, Bart. We've still got plenty of talking to do. But if I hear shots, we're done talking." Bart lowered his weapon.
Little Bear blew the horn. The warriors gathered. Running Coyote was annoyed and said to Little Bear, "Why did you blow the horn, Little Bear. Do you need some instruction on how to hunt for buffalo? The first rule is to not make any loud noises when we are sneaking up on a herd." The other braves laughed heartily. Little Bear ignored him. He had no mind to entertain Running Coyote's derision at this time. "No, Running Coyote, it is about the truce. Some say that there has been an attack on the village." Running Coyote's face sobered. He no longer felt like joking. "Who says this, Little Bear?" Running Coyote asked. Little Bear replied, "The Chief says this."
Vivian brushed her hair and looked into the mirror. She thought her nose was too big and her face was too round. She sighed. Then she heard her mother call up the stairs, "Vivian, it's time for school!" Vivian replied, "Ok, Mom, I'll be right down!" She put down the brush, grabbed her backpack, and trotted down the stairs. She did not want to go to school, but she knew better than to play around on her mama's time. Her mother met her in the vestibule. She ran her fingers through Vivian's hair and said, "You look beautiful, Viv." Vivian put her head down. She did not believe her mother.
We stared at the Bubblegum Fortress from the mouth of the Cotton Candy Woods. The gumdrop soldiers were scurrying atop their sugar coated ramparts. I wouldn't be surprised if someone had tipped them off. Chet Eagle approached me and said, "What now, Commander Candy?" I thought about it for a second. "Well, they get better prepared with each passing second, so let's attack now." Chet Eagle bowed and said, "As you wish, Commander Candy."
Chad tightened his grip on the rope. He could feel his fingers weakening. "Come on, Chad! Pull! We're losing ground!" shouted his teammate George. Chad gazed at the mud puddle toward which he and George were being dragged. Then he looked up at his opponents. They were screaming something, but Chad couldn't quite hear it. The muscles in his arms and shoulders were tightening. "It's now or never!" George shouted. Chad dug his heels in the dirt and pulled with all his strength.
You are sitting on a sofa enjoying a drink when a man walks into the coffee shop. He is wearing dark sunglasses and a black suit. He sits right next to you. You find this odd since there are so many other open seats that aren't right next to you. You look at him suspiciously. He opens his briefcase and pulls out a manila envelope and hands it to you. You look at the envelope for a second before taking it from his hand. The man smiles at you from behind his dark sunglasses.
Wham! Jessie slammed the door shut behind him. He didn't say that he was mad, but from how hard he slammed that door, I'm guessing that he was. Caroline came up to me and asked, "What's wrong with him?" I shrugged my shoulders and threw the cards on the table. "I guess he wanted to win a game," I told her. She crossed her arms and gave me a look of annoyance.
The sun was rising. Ivan saw the light piercing through the drawn curtains in his bedroom and knew that he would have to get up soon. He hadn't been sleeping for the last hour. He had been thinking about the future. He nudged his wife Nadia. Nadia came to slowly. She smiled, still thinking about the pleasant dream that she had been having, until she looked at Ivan's face. She could tell that something was wrong.
Elephants love water. They are excellent swimmers, and they also love to splash and play in shallow water. They suck water up into their trunks, two gallons at a time, and spray it into their mouths. They love to squirt their elephant and human friends, too. Even though their skin is an inch thick, it is very sensitive, and can get sunburned. They roll in the shallow waters to get a nice protective layer of mud on their bodies. Mother elephants are also careful to keep their babies coated with mud.
The Elephant and the Sunbird
Gajbaahu the mighty elephant was walking through the jungle in India. He is a different species than the elephants of Africa and he was proud to be an Indian elephant. As Gajbaahu made his way through the jungle he passed by other mammals of India. He saw lions, tigers, a rhinoceros, a leopard, and macaques. Then he spied a tiny sunbird lying on its back on the ground.
“Little Sunbird,” Gajbaahu said, “Why are you lying upside down? Are you okay?”
The small sunbird replied, “The mice say that the sky might fall today. I am ready to use my feet to help keep the sky above us.”
Gajbaahu snorted a big laugh through his long trunk. It was a funny sound.
“How can those tiny feet hold up part of the vast sky?”
“I can’t hold up the sky by myself,” said Sunbird. “But am willing to help everyone else and do my share.”
Tara’s Terrarium
Tara was looking forward to the science fair this Monday. Science was her favorite subject and someday Tara wanted to follow in her mother and grandmother’s footsteps to be a scientist for her future career.
Tara had planned out her experiment about plants and followed the scientific rubric that her teacher, Mrs. Winston, had outlined. Last night Tara realized that her experiment would not work. The plants that were in the dark basement and were not watered seemed to be growing better than the plants that were in the sun and being watered daily. Tara knew that science experiments were to predict something was going to happen and to hypothesize why something would happen. But how would Tara explain this?
She needed to switch gears and come up with a different idea. Tara had stayed up through the night to do some research on plant experiments. With a little luck and some scientific insight, this might just work out.
After a delicious breakfast of hot oatmeal sprinkled with brown sugar, Tara finished her freshly squeezed orange juice and was ready to go. The experiments needed to be set up Monday morning so she needed to hurry.
Dusting off a large glass jar from the basement, Tara was headed in a new direction. “This will work out great!” Tara shouted as she ran up the stairs. Then she carefully placed a thin layer of sand followed by some black, rich dirt into the jar. She grabbed some of the plants that had grown well from her first experiment and tucked a few into the dirt. It took a little longer than she had thought because the top of the jar was quite narrow.
Tara carefully placed the hermit crabs into the sand. They scrambled into their shells, a little frightened in their new environment. Tara filled a small container of water and placed it against some rocks. She made a mental note to refill the water daily so the crabs could have enough water if they needed some. Then she sprinkled some of the crab food powder near the shells.
It was almost late afternoon and Tara needed to add notes to her scientific log. She copied the dates from the weekend into the log and wrote all of the details of how her first experiment did not quite work out. Then she wrote a summary of what her new experiment was all about. She was careful to follow the rubric that Mrs. Winston had reviewed. She was going to grade the experiments right before the science fair opened to the crowds of people who routinely came to view it.
Tara almost forgot. She did not want anything to happen this time. There would be no excuse for her changing her experiment again. Tara placed the small section of screen she had found in the garage on top of the jar and tightly added a rubber band around the opening. The crabs would be sure to get enough air and they would be safe. She did not want anything to happen to the crabs. After all, they were her brother’s. She had hoped he wouldn’t care if she borrowed them for a few days. It was “in the name of science” and she thought that Ted would understand.
Tara wrote about the terrarium she created: A terrarium is a container designed to hold small plants and animals in a controlled condition. (A “controlled” condition is a way of directing what is going to happen.) She wrote about the beach environment she created for the crabs. Luckily, she already knew a lot about crabs.
When her log was completed, she placed it next to her terrarium. She was happy to be finished and quite pleased that her experiment worked out after all. Then she ran off to find Ted and to thank him for the crabs.
It was almost Halloween, and Maria still hadn’t thought of a costume. Her sister Louisa was going as a hot dog, and Maria thought that was the best idea ever. Louisa always took Maria trick-or-treating, and they always had costumes that went together. But this year, Louisa had been too busy with her friends to help Maria with a costume. Maria didn’t know what to do.
Maria was looking in some magazines for costume ideas when her mom asked her to go with her to the grocery store. At the store, in the Halloween candy aisle, Maria saw a tall, pointed red hat that gave her a great idea. The hat only cost two dollars, so Maria’s mom bought it for her. Maria skipped all the way to the car. She had a costume! She was going to be...KETCHUP!
The Birthday Cake
It is Jill’s birthday. Jill’s favorite part of her birthday is the cake. Jill loves cake. Jill’s mother made her a big, pink cake with cherries on top. Jill’s friends came over for a party and shared the cake.
The Bee

“Come here, Lucy, and listen! What is in this flower?”
“Oh Mother! It is a bee. I wonder how it got caught inside the flower?”
“It went into the flower for some honey, and maybe it went to sleep. Then the flower closed it in.”
“The bee likes honey as we do, but it does not like to be closed in the flower.”
“Shall we let it out, Lucy?”
“Yes, then it can go to other flowers and get honey.”
A Cold Bear

Brrrr! It is getting cold. Bear needs to get ready for winter. First, he eats a lot.
Next, he finds a den. Then, he fills the den with leaves, so he will stay warm. Last, he eats even more! Is Bear ready for winter? Yes, he is. Winter is here!
Kitten’s Choice

Kitten plays with her new toy. She loves her new toy. Her brother likes her new toy, too. When Kitten isn’t playing with it, her brother takes it to play.
Kitten is having fun. Then, she sees a mouse! She wants to chase the mouse. If she chases the mouse, her brother will take her toy.
Kitten thinks. She can only choose one thing to play with. If she picks the mouse, her toy will go away with her brother. If she picks the toy, the mouse will run away. Which one should Kitten pick?
Kitten runs after the mouse. She does not see a lot of mice, so that is more fun. She does not catch the mouse, but she has fun running after him. Kitten is happy with her choice.
Some animals "hibernate" for part or all of the winter. This is a special, very deep sleep. The animal's body temperature drops, and its heartbeat and breathing slow down. It uses very little energy. In the fall, these animals get ready for winter by eating extra food and storing it as body fat. They use this fat for energy while hibernating. Some also store food like nuts or acorns to eat later in the winter. Bears, skunks, chipmunks, and some bats hibernate.

Insects look for winter shelter in holes in the ground, under the bark of trees, deep inside rotting logs or in any small crack they can find. One of the most interesting places is in a gall. A gall is a swelling on a plant. It is caused by certain insects, fungi or bacteria. They make a chemical that affects the plant's growth in a small area, forming a lump. The gall becomes its maker's home and food source.
The Fox and the Woodcutter
A Fox, being chased by a Hunter on horseback and his pack of hounds, ran into the forest to hide. The Fox came across a Woodcutter who was chopping away at an oak tree. The Fox begged the Woodcutter to show him a safe hiding-place.
The Woodcutter pointed to his own small hut just down the road, and told the Fox to go and take shelter there. The Fox hurried to the hut and hid himself in a corner inside.
The Hunter soon rode up with his barking hounds. Seeing the Woodcutter, the Hunter asked him if he had seen the Fox. The Woodcutter laid down his axe. “I have seen no Fox, though I have been working here all morning,” he said. But all the time that he was speaking, he was pointing to his hut where the Fox was hiding.
The Hunter took no notice of the pointing, but believed the Woodsman’s words. He rode quickly on down the road to continue the chase.
As soon as the Hunter and the hounds were well away, the Fox came out and trotted off down the road, without taking any notice of the Woodcutter. Seeing this, the Woodcutter shouted after him. “You ungrateful fellow! You owe your life to me, and yet you leave me without a single word of thanks.”
The Fox looked back over his shoulder, and replied, “Indeed, I would have thanked you greatly if your actions had been as helpful as your words. But your hands denied your speech!”
Ask anyone who's been through an extreme weather event and they will tell you that the tornado, hurricane, flash flood, blizzard or avalanche they experienced was indeed the worst kind of weather to live through.

But perhaps no one can testify to the shocking power of sudden severe weather as well as those who have had a bolt of white-hot lightning shoot through them. Lightning can strike with little or no warning in some parts of the world. Twenty percent of lightning victims are struck dead immediately.

Because lightning bolts strike Earth approximately 100 times a second, it stands to reason that lightning kills more people annually than hurricanes or tornadoes, according to a number of experts.
Research dating to the 1940s has consistently shown that young citizens vote at lower rates than older citizens and are less likely to feel connected to the electoral process (Highton and Wolfinger 2001). This low level of involvement reflects something of a vicious cycle. Because young people vote at low rates, they are less likely to be courted by campaigns (Bennett 1991). As campaigns attend to other constituencies, young voters are neither central to the framing of campaign issues nor the object of voter mobilization efforts. The question is what, if anything, can be done to break this vicious cycle.
There are bits of rock and dust, called meteoroids, everywhere in space. When meteoroids enter the earth’s atmosphere they get very hot, and burn. Most of them burn up completely before they hit the earth.
When meteoroids enter the earth’s atmosphere and start to burn, they are called meteors. You can see them from the ground. They look like they are shooting across the sky. We call them shooting stars. Shooting stars are not stars at all. They are meteors!
If you look hard enough and long enough on a clear night, you can usually see a meteor. But on some nights, hundreds or even thousands can be seen. This happens when the earth passes through the tail of a comet. Comets, as well as planets, orbit the sun in our Solar System. Comets have “vapor tails” of gasses and small meteoroids. These vapor tails can be millions of miles long. When the earth passes through a comet’s vapor tail, the resulting light show is called a “meteor shower.”
The number of shooting stars that are visible during a meteor shower depends upon the size of the comet’s vapor trail. Sometimes during a meteor shower there can be hundreds of shooting stars per hour. There have been times when a meteor shower lit up the entire sky.
Canada is a bilingual country with two official languages, English and French. The vast majority (75 per cent) of Canada's French-speaking inhabitants live in the province of Quebec, which is located in the eastern part of the country but there are French-speaking communities throughout the country.

According to a 1991 census, French is the mother tongue of 82 per cent of Quebec's population and is spoken at home by 83 per cent of Quebecers.

Internationally, it is estimated that some 800 million people speak English and 250 million speak French. As a bilingual nation, Canada offers superior English as a Second Language (ESL) and French as a Second Language (FSL) training for students wishing to learn either or both languages.
The Proud Crow
The Ruler of all Animals decided that he should create a royal bird to rule over all the other birds. He made it known that the birds should all come before him so that he could choose the most beautiful among them to be King. The Crow knew that he was far from the most beautiful of the birds. He went through the forest, collecting feathers that had fallen from the wings of the nicer looking birds. He stuck the lovely feathers all over his body, hoping to make himself the most beautiful of all. When the birds lined themselves up in front of The Ruler of all Animals, the Crow took his place with the others. The Ruler was amazed at the Crow’s beauty, and made him King. But the other birds saw through the Crow’s trick. Each one plucked his own feather off of the Crow, leaving the Crow nothing but a Crow. And Jupiter decided that the birds did not deserve a King.
The Belling of the Cat
Long ago, the mice held a general meeting to discuss what they could do to outsmart their common enemy, the Cat. Some said this, and some said that.
At last, a young mouse got up and said that he had an idea that would solve everything. “You will all agree,” said he, “that the real problem is the sly way the Cat sneaks up on us. She moves so silently that we never know when she is around. We never know when she will pounce on us from behind. Now, if we only had some warning that she was coming, we could easily escape from her. So, what I suggest is that we find a small bell, and simply tie it with a ribbon around the neck of the Cat. This way, we will always know when she is coming, and we can easily run away and hide.
All the mice clapped, and some stood up and cheered. They started to get ready to leave. Then, an old mouse went up to the front of the room. He pounded on a table to get everyone’s attention.
“This is all very well,” the old mouse said. “But WHO will bell the Cat?” The mice all looked around at one another and nobody spoke.
Traditionally, when one thinks of the expansion of the American West, the event most likely to come to mind is the California Gold Rush of 1849. While that profitable discovery did boost California's population by 80,000 eager prospectors, there remained an awful lot of land between the Pacific Coast and, say, St. Louis, Missouri. "Why mention St. Louis?" you might be asking. Because in actuality the young United States started exploring the vast land mass to the west from that very point and almost fifty years before those gold nuggets started hitting the pan in California.
The Story of Regulus
On the other side of the sea from Rome, there was once a great city named Carthage. The Roman people were never very friendly to the people of Carthage, and at last a war began between them. For a long time, it was hard to tell which would prove the stronger. First the Romans would win a battle, and then the men of Carthage would win a battle; and so the war went on for many years.
Among the Romans there was a brave general named Regulus,—a man of whom it was said that he never broke his word. It so happened after a while, that Regulus was taken prisoner and carried to Carthage. Ill and very lonely, he dreamed of his wife and little children so far away beyond the sea; he had but little hope of ever seeing them again. He loved his home dearly, but he believed that his first duty was to his country; and so he had left all to fight in this cruel war.
He had lost a battle, it is true, and had been taken prisoner. Yet he knew that the Romans were gaining ground, and the people of Carthage were afraid of being beaten in the end. They had gone into other countries to hire soldiers to help them, but, even with these soldiers, they would not be able to fight much longer against Rome.
One day, some of the rulers of Carthage came to the prison to talk with Regulus.
“We would like to make peace with the Roman people,” they said, “and we are sure that if your rulers at home knew how the war is going, they would be glad to make peace with us. We will set you free and let you go home, if you will agree to do as we say.”
“What is that?” asked Regulus.
“In the first place,” they said, “you must tell the Romans about the battles which you have lost, and you must make it plain to them that they have not gained anything by the war. In the second place,
you must promise us that if they will not make peace, you will come back to your prison.”
“Very well,” said Regulus. “I promise you that if they will not make peace, I will come back to prison.”
And so they let him go because they knew that a great Roman would keep his word.
When he came to Rome, all the people greeted him gladly. His wife and children were very happy because they thought that they would not be parted again. The white-haired Fathers who made the laws for the city came to see him. They asked him about the war.
“I was sent from Carthage to ask you to make peace,” he said. “However, it will not be wise to make peace. True, we have been beaten in a few battles, but our army is gaining ground every day. The people of Carthage are afraid, and they should be. Keep on with the war a little while longer, and Carthage shall be yours. As for me, I have come to bid my wife and children and Rome farewell. Tomorrow I will start back to Carthage and to prison as I have promised.”
Then the Fathers tried to persuade him to stay.“Let us send another man in your place,” they said.
“Shall a Roman not keep his word?” asked Regulus. “I am ill, and at the best, have not long to live. I will go back as I promised.”
His wife and little children wept, and his sons begged him not to leave them again.
“I have given my word,” said Regulus. “The rest will be taken care of.”
Then he bade them goodbye and went bravely back to the prison and the cruel death which he expected.
This was the kind of courage that made Rome the greatest city in the world.
Big Gorilla
Katy is planning a birthday party. “Who will you invite to the party?” her
mother asks.
“All of my friends,” Katy says.
“Do you want a clown? Do you want
balloons? Do you want a moon bounce?”
“No,” Katy says. “I want a big gorilla to play the guitar!”
The Thunderstorm

The kids were outside playing catch. They heard a rumble in the sky.
They didn’t want to stop playing, but they knew it wasn’t safe to be out in a storm. Also, they did not want to get wet.
They decided to go inside and play a board game. They loved listening to the thunder as they played their game.
The kids went outside again after the storm had passed. They saw a rainbow!
Making Cookies

Greg likes to help his mom make cookies. Chocolate chip cookies are his favorite. His mom likes them too.
He adds the chocolate chips to the batter. Then he stirs them in. He forms the batter into balls and places them on a baking sheet. His mom places the baking sheet into the
oven.
When the cookies are in the oven, Greg licks the last bits of batter from the bowl. He can hardly wait for the cookies to be ready.
In 30 minutes the cookies are finished baking. The cookies are hot and yummy.
Cinco de Mayo
Because Texas was once a part of Mexico, it has a strong Mexican heritage. That is why Texas celebrates the popular Mexican holiday of Cinco de Mayo. In fact, many towns and cities throughout Texas have festivals to celebrate Mexico’s most famous military victory.
About 4,000 Mexican soldiers fought the much larger French army at Puebla, Mexico, on the morning of May 5, 1862. In honor of this victory, Cinco de Mayo is celebrated as an annual holiday.
The French had landed in Mexico along with Spanish and English troops to help collect debts from President Benito Juarez. While the English and Spanish made deals and left, the French stayed. They wanted to rule the Mexican empire. The French invaded Mexico, traveling from the port of Vera Cruz to attack Mexico City to the west.
Under the command of Texas-born General Zaragosa and the cavalry under the direction of Colonel Diaz (later to be Mexico’s president and dictator), the Mexicans waited. Diaz took his cavalry out to meet the French, and the French could not overcome the Mexicans.
The remaining French infantry tried to overpower the Mexicans, but there was a thunderstorm that frightened hundreds of cattle, which in turn started a stampede. When the battle was over, many French soldiers were wounded and killed, and the cavalry was chased away. The Mexicans had won a great victory.
Cinco de Mayo celebrates freedom and liberty. Many people think Cinco de Mayo is when Mexico declared independence. That is not true. Mexico declared independence from Spain on the 16th of September, 1810, and it took 11 more years before the first Spanish soldiers were forced to leave Mexico.
Freedom and liberty are worth fighting for and they are worth celebrating, especially on Cinco de Mayo. Viva! el Cinco de Mayo!
Baby Chicks
Mother Hen was sitting on her nest of straw in the chicken house at Brooks Acres Farm. Under her warm feathers were five eggs. Mother Hen had laid these eggs about 21 days ago so the baby chicks inside the eggs were ready to hatch.
Every baby chick has an egg tooth that grows at the end of its beak. The egg tooth helps the baby chick crack open the hard eggshell so the baby chick can get out. It takes nearly all day for a baby chick to crack the eggshell and get itself out.
One by one the five eggs began to crack open and five baby chicks hatched. When it hatched each baby chick was all wet from living inside the egg. In a little bit the wet feathers dried and the baby chicks looked like little birds. The baby chicks began walking around right away.
The baby chicks had real feathers when they were four weeks old and lost their egg tooth. They grew a red comb on the top of the head and a wattle under the chin. The baby chicks were all grown up into roosters and hens in six months.
Little Bat
Little Bat lived on a farm. During the day he slept high up in the barn. At night he woke up and looked for bugs to eat. Little Bat was friends with the lambs, the piglets, the calf, and the kittens. But Little Bat did not like the spider. The spider was not good to eat. The spider was not friendly. And Little Bat did not like to get sticky web on his wings. So Little Bat and the spider left each other alone!
Carla is six years old, and she lives on a farm. They have a big cornfield and a small vegetable garden. Carla likes to help her mother work in the garden. They have a small white house and a big red barn. They have two horses, three pigs, one dog, and one cow.
Carla thinks that the horse is nice. She thinks that the pigs are funny when they roll around in the mud. The dog is her favorite. But she is not sure what she thinks about the cow. The cow is the biggest of all of their animals, and it makes the loudest sound. Carla always runs to her papa when the cow lifts its head to MOOOO!
Why the Bear is Stumpy‐tailed
One day the Bear met the Fox, who came slinking along with a string of fish he had stolen.
"Whence did you get those?" asked the Bear.
"Oh! my Lord Bruin, I've been out fishing and caught them," said the Fox.
So the Bear had a mind to learn to fish too, and bade the Fox tell him how he was to set about it.
"Oh! it's an easy craft for you," answered the Fox, "and soon learnt. You've only got to go upon the ice, and cut a hole and stick your tail down into it; and so you must go on holding it there as long as you can. You're not to mind if your tail smarts a little; that's when the fish bite. The longer you hold it there the more fish you'll get; and then all at once out with it, with a cross pull sideways, and with a strong pull too."
Yes; the Bear did as the Fox had said, and held his tail a long, long time down in the hole, till it was fast frozen in. Then he pulled it out with a cross pull, and it snapped short off. That's why Bruin goes about with a stumpy tail this very day.
Androclus and the Lion
In Rome there was once a poor slave whose name was Androclus. His master was a cruel man and so unkind to him that Androclus ran away.
Androclus hid in the woods for many days, but there was no food to be found, and he grew weak and sick. One day he crept into a cave and lay down and soon he was fast asleep.
After a while, a great noise woke him up. A lion had come into the cave and was roaring loudly. Androclus was very afraid because he felt sure that the beast would kill him. Soon, however, he saw that the lion was not angry, but that he limped as though his foot hurt him.
Androclus grew bold and took hold of the lion's lame paw to see what was wrong. The lion stood quite still and rubbed his head against the man's shoulder. He seemed to say,—
“I know that you will help me.”
Androclus lifted the paw from the ground and saw that it was a long, sharp thorn that was hurting the lion a lot. He took the end of the thorn in his fingers, then he gave a strong, quick pull, and out it came. The lion was full of joy. He jumped about like a dog and licked the hands and feet of his new friend.
Androclus was not at all afraid of the lion, and, when night came, he and the lion lay down and slept side by side.
The lion brought food to Androclus every day, and the two became such good friends that Androclus was very happy in his new life.
One day some soldiers who were passing through the wood found Androclus in the cave. They knew who he was and they took him back to Rome.
It was the law at that time that every slave who ran away from his master should be made to fight a hungry lion.
When the day came, thousands of people crowded to see the sport of the slave fighting the hungry lion.
The door opened, and poor Androclus was brought in. He was very afraid because he could already hear the roars of the lion. He looked up and saw that there was no pity in the thousands of faces around him.
Then the hungry lion rushed in. With a single bound he reached the poor slave. Androclus gave a great cry, not of fear, but of gladness. It was his old friend, the lion of the cave.
The people, who had expected to see the man killed by the lion, were filled with wonder. They saw Androclus put his arms around the lion's neck; they saw the lion lie down at his feet and lick them lovingly; they saw the great beast rub his head against the slave's face as though he wanted to be petted. They could not understand what it all meant.
After a while they asked Androclus to tell them about it. So he stood up before them and, with his arm around the lion's neck, told how he and the beast had lived together in the cave.
“I am a man,” he said, “but no man has ever befriended me. This poor lion alone has been kind to me, and we love each other as brothers.”
The people were good enough that they would not be cruel to the poor slave now. “Live and be free!” they cried. “Live and be free!”
Others cried, “Let the lion go free too! Give both of them their liberty!”
And so Androclus was set free, and the lion was given to him. They lived together in Rome for many years.
 "Crunch, crunch, crunch..." Brian was chewing his chips with his mouth open. Lucy looked up at him and scoffed, "You're so gross, Brian! Chew with your mouth closed." Brian laughed and miniscule chip crumbs projected from his mouth and landed on his desk. Mr. Romal kept writing on the board with his back to the class. "You must be jealous. Here!" Brian said as he threw a chip at Lucy. He missed. Lucy shook her head and continued writing in her notebook. Brian crumpled up the empty chip bag and shot it at the garbage can. He missed again.
The stars were burning brightly in the night sky. The evening breeze felt cool on my skin. It was the last night of summer break and I was calm, oddly calm. It's not that I was excited to go back to school. I wasn't. School is a lot of work for me. But I was excited to see my friends again, and I knew that she would be there.
Penny pedaled her bike as quickly as she could, but she couldn't seem to build up enough speed. She started rolling down the hill. "I can't do it," she thought to herself. Her friend Melissa was riding behind her. "Keep trying! Stand up on your pedals. You can do it!" Melissa shouted. Penny decided to take her advice. She stood up on the pedals and put all of her weight into the climb. She started going up the hill. This made Penny very happy. "Thanks Melissa!" she said as she got to the top of the hill. Melissa smiled and said, "What are friends for?"
Rex walked through the alley toward the street. He stopped by a trashcan and sniffed around it, and then he climbed up on his hind legs and pawed the lid off of the can. The can fell over and the waste spilled out into the alley. Rex began cherry picking the food items. As he was gnawing on a pizza crust a large Rottweiler trotted up to the mess. He began growling at Rex. Rex moved to the perimeter of the spill, but the Rottweiler followed him, growling with more intensity. Rex met eyes with the Rottweiler and instantly they began fighting.
The bell rang. "Oh no! I'm going to be late for science! I've got to go," said Cassie to her friend Tom. Tom rolled his eyes and said, "Little Miss Perfect can't be late." This upset Cassie. She hated when people gave her a hard time for trying to do the right thing, especially Tom. "Quiet you," she said while swinging at Tom with her folder. He narrowly dodged the strike and said, "Be careful now. Attacking another student is a level two offense." Then he smiled a big, cheesy grin at her.
You look at the blueprints laid before you. You have no idea how to read them. "Why did I lie to get this job?" you wonder to yourself. The men in the room are watching you. The man in the suit who hired you asks, "Well, what do you think about these plans? Should we go for it?" You pick up the blueprints and pretend to study them carefully. "Um, well, have we done any fault testing?" you ask. The man in the suit squints at you and says, "Fault testing? What's fault testing?" To buy yourself time in a really smooth way you say, "Uhh..."
As you buckle your seatbelt, safety instructions are broadcast over the inflight system. A stewardess models the actions in sync with the broadcast. You turn to your right. An extremely rotund man is snoring. He looks like he is about to fall onto your shoulder. You look to your left. You see a man with a Mohawk is listening to loud punk music. You can hear it as though your were the one wearing headphones. You sigh and pull up your tray table as instructed.
Walter crumpled the business section of the newspaper. He couldn't believe the headline: "Zanogram Sold for 4 Billions Smackaroos!" He could recall starting that company with his partner Zap just a few years earlier. Now Walter had nothing and was riding the bus while Zap took champagne bubble baths. The bus driver noticed that Walter looked distressed. He was genuinely concerned about Walter, but he had learned a long time ago not to pry into the fare's affairs.

You made a smart move when you bought your Super Fun Clay Fun Pack. You're going to love playing with Super Fun Clay. There are just a few rules that you need to follow when playing with your Super Fun Clay Fun Pack. First, only play with your Super Fun Clay Fun Pack on glass surfaces. Super Fun Clay will burn through carpet, wood, and stone. Also, you need to wear thick latex or rubber gloves when playing with Super Fun Clay. Super Fun Clay will burn off your skin even with brief contact. Just follow these two simple rules and you'll have lots fun with Super Fun Clay!
It was noon. The sun was high in the blue sky. The air was filled with the sounds of lawn mowers and birds chirping. A door opened. A young boy walked outside. A woman's voice could be heard from the house yelling, "Wait for me, Michael." The young boy did not wait. He ran to the sidewalk and began jumping. "Yeah! Yeah! Machine gun!" he yelled, pointing an invisible gun in all directions. He took imaginary shots every few seconds and pantomimed the recoil.
Grace Darling
It was a dark September morning. There was a storm at sea. A ship had crashed onto a low rock off the shores of the Farne Islands. It had been broken in two by the waves, and half of it had been washed away. The other half still lay on the rock, and the crew was clinging to it. But the waves were dashing over it, and, in a little while, it too would be carried to the bottom of the sea.
Could anyone save the poor, wet men who were there?
On one of the islands was a light-house, and there, all through that stormy night, Grace Darling had listened to the storm.
Grace was the daughter of the light-house keeper, and she had lived by the sea as long as she could remember.
In the darkness of the night, above the noise of the winds and waves, she heard screams and wild cries. When daylight came, she could see the wreck a mile away with the angry waters all around it. She could see the men clinging to the masts.
“We must try to save them!” she cried. “Let us go out in the boat at once!”
“It is of no use, Grace,” said her father. “We cannot reach them.”
He was an old man, and he knew the force of the mighty waves.
“We cannot stay here and see them drown,” said Grace. “We must at least try to save them.”
Her father could not say, “No.”
In a few minutes they were ready. They set off in the heavy lighthouse boat. Grace pulled one oar, and her father the other, and they steered straight toward the wreck. It was hard rowing against such a sea, and it seemed as though they would never reach the rock.
At last they were close to the rock, and now they were in greater danger than before. The fierce waves broke against the boat, and it would have been dashed in pieces had it not been for the strength and skill of the brave girl.
After many tries, Grace's father finally climbed on the wreck while Grace herself held the boat. Then, one by one, the worn-out crew members were helped on board. It was all that the girl could do to keep the frail boat from drifting away, or breaking upon the sharp edges of the rock.
Then her father clambered back into his place. Strong hands grasped the oars, and soon all were safe in the lighthouse. There Grace proved to be as tender as a nurse, just like she had been brave as a sailor. She cared very kindly for the ship-wrecked men until the storm died away, and the men were strong enough to go to their own homes.
All this happened a long time ago, but the name of Grace Darling will never be forgotten. She lies buried now in a little churchyard by the sea, not far from her old home. Every year many people go there to see her grave, and there is a monument placed in honor of the brave girl. It is not a large monument, but it is one that speaks of the noble deed which made Grace Darling famous. It is a figure carved in stone of a woman lying at rest with a boat's oar held fast in her right hand.
Androcles and the Lion
A Slave named Androcles once escaped from his master and fled to the forest. As he was wandering about there he came upon a Lion lying down moaning and groaning. At first he turned to flee, but finding that the Lion did not pursue him, he turned back and went up to him. As he came near, the Lion put out his paw, which was all swollen and bleeding, and Androcles found that a huge thorn had got into it, and was causing all the pain. He pulled out the thorn and bound up the paw of the Lion, who was soon able to rise and lick the hand of Androcles like a dog. Then the Lion took Androcles to his cave, and every day used to bring him meat from which to live. But shortly afterwards both Androcles and the Lion were captured, and the slave was sentenced to be thrown to the Lion, after the latter had been kept without food for several days. The Emperor and all his Court came to see the spectacle, and Androcles was led out into the middle of the arena. Soon the Lion was let loose from his den, and rushed bounding and roaring towards his victim. But as soon as he came near to Androcles he recognized his friend, and fawned upon him, and licked his hands like a friendly dog. The Emperor, surprised at this, summoned Androcles to him, who told him the whole story. Whereupon the slave was pardoned and freed, and the Lion let loose to his native forest.
Jim’s Hat
Jim wanted to go out and play in the snow.
“Put on your hat,” said Jim’s mom.
Jim put on his hat. He went outside. He found his friends. Hank
threw a snowball. Jim threw a snowball. They had a snowball war. Later, Jim went inside for a snack.
“Where is your hat?” said Jim’s mom.
Jim put his hand on his head. There was no hat!
“Go outside and find your hat,” said Jim’s mom. Jim went outside. There was his hat ― on a snowman!
It was a Saturday afternoon, and Theresa and Aunt Mae were walking to the ice cream shop. “Oh no,” cried Theresa, looking down at the big metal drain on the sidewalk. “I’ve dropped my lucky penny down the drain!”
Aunt Mae stopped. They both looked down into the deep dark drain. Theresa’s eyes got red, and tears started to form. “I think the firemen could get it out,” she said.
Aunt Mae took Theresa’s hand. “Well, maybe they could,” she said. “But I don’t think we should bother them with such a little thing.” She thought for a minute. “You know, there is good luck and there is bad luck. Maybe that was a bad luck penny, after all.” She shook her finger at the drain, as if to scold the penny.
Theresa had to laugh at that. “You can’t buy ice cream for a penny anyway,” she said to Aunt Mae.
The Life Cycle of Butterflies and Beetles
Butterflies. There are four separate stages in the life of a butterfly:
• The egg. The egg is a tiny, round or oval shape that gets attached by the
female butterfly to a leaf, stem or other object. The egg is usually attached near the intended caterpillar food.
• The caterpillar or larva. The caterpillar or larva is the long, worm-like state of the butterfly. It sometimes has an interesting pattern of stripes or patches. It might have spine-like hairs. This is the feeding and the growth stage of the butterfly. As the caterpillar grows, it sheds its skin four or more times so it can enclose its rapidly growing body.
• The chrysalis or pupa. The chrysalis or pupa is the transformation stage. The caterpillar tissues are broken down to form the adult insect structures.
Usually the chrysalis is brown or green color to blend into the surroundings. Many times the chrysalis stage will remain this way over winter.
• The adult or imago. The adult or imago is the colorful butterfly that you see
throughout the warmer months of spring and summer. The adult stage is called the reproductive stage. These adults find their mates and lay more eggs. The adult stage also migrates or colonizes new places to live.
Beetles. The beetle has mouth parts to allow it to use a variety of solid foods in the environment. It has elytra which protect the hind-wings and give the beetle help in survival. Beetles undergo a change which is called “metamorphosis”. There are three stages before becoming an adult:
• The egg. The beetle larva hatches from the eggs in the female’s saclike structure after the eggs were fertilized.
• The larva. The larva hatches and grows until its body splits the skin. The larva crawls
out of the old skin and forms a new skin. This is called “molting”. Molting occurs
several times until the larva is mature.
• The pupa. Wings develop and are seen in this stage.
• The adult. Within a month, the adult emerges from the pupa and searches for prey. The beetle feeds on plants and other insects. Its wings are full-size and the outer skeleton is now hard.   
Summer Treats
Jessica and Ellen were having fun on the swings at the park on a hot summer day. They both loved the feeling of the air on their faces when they would swing high up over the ground. After a little while they dragged their sneakers in the dirt to stop swinging.
Mom had given the twins money to get a summer treat at the park’s snack shop.
“What are you getting?” asked Jessica.
“I want an orange popsicle. That’s my favorite kind,” replied Ellen. “Let’s split one so it won’t all melt.”
The two girls bought the popsicle and then started on home. They wondered where the frozen treat on a stick came from so they asked their Mom.
“Oh, popsicles were invented by a boy just about your age. He was eleven. He mixed something like Kool-Aid and water together and brought it on the porch. He forgot to bring his drink inside and it froze overnight with the stirring stick still in it. That’s how the first popsicle was made. Later he sold his treats to the neighbors and then when he grew up he started a popsicle factory.”
The twins had only heard about famous adult inventors and wondered if someday they too could make some kind of new invention.
Monster Learns Rules

One day, a monster came to our classroom. He didn’t know any of the rules!
We had to show him how to sit on the carpet. We had to show him how to use a quiet voice. We had to show him how to use supplies.
We went to P.E. class. Monster tried to sit on the carpet. No, Monster! We don’t have to sit on a carpet in the gym! Monster tried to use a quiet voice. No, Monster! We don’t have to be quiet in the gym. Monster didn’t know what to do with the supplies. We showed him how to throw a ball.
We went to the lunchroom. Monster sat at a table. Good job, Monster! Monster used a loud voice. No, Monster! We can’t be too loud in the lunchroom. Monster tried to throw his food. No, Monster! We can’t throw food. Monster was confused. Poor Monster.
We went to our classroom. We wrote the rules for the different places at school. Rules are different in different places. It is tricky but it keeps us safe!
Apples

Do you like apples? Apples can be red, yellow, or green. Each color tastes different. They are fruit. You can make apples into treats.
Apples grow on trees. They finish growing in the fall. Then you can pick them to eat. When you pick an apple, you twist it and then pull it off the tree.
There are five parts of an apple. The outside is the skin. The inside is the flesh. There are seeds inside of the apple. The stem is on top. Some apples have leaves by the stem. What else do you know about apples?
Spooky Golf
There was a new indoor golf course in town. Don went with his father. It was dark in the golf course. Many things glowed in the dark. Don played golf with ghosts and monsters. He played golf with vampires and werewolves. It was a spooky golf course!
Humming Birds
The most beautiful humming birds are found in the West Indies and South America. The crest of the tiny head of one of these birds shines like a sparkling crown of colored light. The shades of color that adorn its breast are equally brilliant. As the bird flits from one flower to another, it looks more like a bright flash of sunlight than it does a living being.
You ask, why are they called humming birds? It is because they make a soft, humming noise by the rapid motion of their wings—a motion so rapid, that as they fly, you can hardly see that they have wings.
One day when walking in the woods, I found the nest of one of the smallest humming birds. It was about half the size of a very small hen’s egg, and it was attached to a twig no thicker than a steel knitting needle. It seemed to have been made of cotton fibers and was covered with the softest bits of leaf and bark. It had two eggs in it, and each was about as large as a small sugarplum.
When you approach the spot where one of these birds has built its nest, you need to be careful. The mother bird will dart at you and try to peck you. Its sharp beak may hurt you. The poor little thing knows no other way of defending its young, and instinct teaches it that you might carry off its nest if you find it.
We know that the planets of our solar system orbit the sun. Comets also orbit our sun—more than 4,000 of them. Most comets circle the sun very slowly. While the earth circles the sun once a year, many comets take thousands of years to complete just one orbit of the sun.
Comets are made of frozen gasses and bits of rock and dust. The solid part of most comets can be up to 10 miles across. As a comet gets close to the sun, the heat causes the comet’s frozen gasses to turn into a cloud of vapor and dust. The cloud can be thousands of miles across. Solar winds cause this vapor cloud to trail out behind the comet like a tail. This “vapor tail” can be hundreds of millions of miles long.
Sometimes comets are visible from earth. You might think that when this happens you would see the comet whizzing across the sky. But in fact, it would appear to be motionless. This is because both the comet and the earth are moving.
The most famous comet is Halley’s Comet. Its orbit around the sun takes 76 years. This is pretty fast for a comet. There are records of sightings of Halley’s Comet from 2,500 years ago. The next time it will be visible from earth will be in 2061.
The infamous volcano of Mt. Pelee looms over the village of St. Pierre on the French Caribbean Island of Martinique. This sleepy little village shows little of the grandeur of turn-of-the-century St. Pierre, which was a vibrant colonial city, known to European tourists as the "Paris of the West Indies." With its red-tiled cottages, rambling streets, and tropical vegetation, this prosperous little city was renowned for its beauty. In the official 1894 census, the population of St. Pierre was around 20,000. Although most were native Martiniquans, the wealth and political power were controlled largely by Creoles and a few French colonial officials and civil servants. No one at the time could have predicted the horror that was to descend on this tropical paradise with the reawakening of Mt. Pel�e in the Spring of 1902. The violent eruption of Mt. Pel�e on May 8, 1902 generated a pyroclastic flow that rapidly moved down the River Blanche to destroy the small city of St. Pierre on the Island of Martinique. The pyroclastic flow killed over 25,000 people.
Kite was originally called Zhiyuan in north China, and Yaozi in south China. Early in the Five dynasties, a man named Li Ye used to make and fly kite in the imperial court. He once attached a whistle made of bamboo to the kite, sound was let out when the kite was flying, the kite was named after Zheng, a kind of Chinese music instrument. Then it was named Fengzheng till today.

The earliest kite in the world was made by Mo-tse, a famous Chinese philosopher lived 2300 years ago, for military purpose. He spent three years making an eagle and managed to fly it. The eagle later was regarded as the first kite in the world. Kite flying became a recreation probably from the Tang dynasty when the royal family and aristocrats were addicted to it. It was said that the Emperor Xuanzong in the Tang dynasty once was deeply attracted by a kite named Eight Immortals Crossing the Sea flying in the air. The invention of paper made kites cost less and quick spread among the common people. As time went on, kites flew to various counties in the world. The well-known British scientist, Dr. Needham, once described kites as an important scientific invention spread to Europe from China in his book, A History of China's Science and Technology. The invention of kite aroused the dream of mankind to fly and led to invention of airplane.
The Old Woman and the Doctor
In a small village, there lived an old woman who had slowly lost her sight until she was completely blind. She was very poor, but she had a few fine pots and costly trinkets that she had collected for many years and treasured dearly. She decided to send for the doctor, for by selling her treasures she would be able to pay for his services. If only she could have her sight back, she would gladly live without her trinkets and treasures.
The doctor came to the old woman’s little hut, and they came to an agreement. If his treatment cured her blindness, she would give him a certain sum of money. But if she was not cured, she would give him nothing.
For many weeks, the doctor came daily to apply lotion and bandages to the old woman’s eyes. Being a poor man himself, each time he visited, he took one of the woman’s small treasures away with him. Each thing he took was so small that he did not think she would miss it.
When the last bandages were removed, the woman had recovered her sight. She looked around her house, and saw that all of her treasures were gone. She declared that she would give the doctor nothing. The doctor insisted, but the old woman still refused. So he took her before the Judge.
The old woman stood before the Judge and said, “This man speaks the truth. I did promise to pay him if his treatment cured my blindness, but if I continued to be blind, I was to give him nothing. Now he says that I am healed. I, however, assure you that I am still blind. For before I became blind, I saw all of my small treasures in my house. But even though he swears that I am cured, I cannot see a single one of my treasures now.” The Judge ruled that the old woman owed the doctor not a penny.
How to Care for a Pet Fish
Taking care of a pet is a big responsibility, so you want to make sure you learn all about your pet before bringing it home! Many kids have fish as their first pet, and fish can give you a good idea of whether or not you’ll be able to take care of a more complicated pet later on.
First, choose what types of fish and how many fish you will be getting. Freshwater fish are the best fish to start with, until you get really good at taking care of fish and their tanks. Some types of fish do not get along with other types, so you’ll need to research types of fish before you choose what types and how many to buy.
Next, you need to make sure you have all of the necessary supplies that your fish will need. They need a place to live, such as a fish tank with a lid on it. Make sure it is big enough for how many fish you are planning to get! You can put the fish tank on a dresser or other piece of furniture, or you might need to get a fish tank stand. Fish tanks also need a light, so that they can tell the difference between night and day, and an air pump and filter, to keep the water from getting dirty too quickly. The water needs to be kept at a comfortable temperature for your type of fish, so you’ll need a heater and a thermometer, as well. A water testing kit for aquariums is needed, too, to make sure the water quality is good for your fish. Be sure to also get food for your fish! The last thing you need is a fish net and cleaning products for your fish tank. Many people like to get decorations for their fish tank, so save up your money if you’d like decorations!
Now that you have your supplies, you’ll need to set up your aquarium. Put the tank on the stand, close enough to an outlet so that you can plug in the equipment. Wash any gravel and decorations you’re planning to put in the tank. Fill the bottom of the tank with the clean gravel and your decorations, then fill the tank with water. Test the water with a test kit to make sure it will be safe for your fish. Follow the instructions on the heater to heat up the water to the temperature your fish will need. Clean and follow the instructions on the filter and air pump to get those in your fish tank. Make sure your light is ready to go, too! Some people put their lights on a timer so they don’t have to remember to turn the light on and off every morning and evening.
You are ready to pick up your fish! The employees at the pet store should be able to teach you how to make sure your fish get comfortable before you release them into your aquarium. Once the fish are in the tank, you’ll want to watch them closely to make sure they don’t get sick. Feed them in small amounts a few times a day. Too much extra food will make the quality of the water bad, and is not good for your fish! You will have to change some of the water at least once a week. You might need to change the water a little more often for the first few weeks. Be sure to test the water to make sure it is a healthy place for your fish to live. Enjoy your new pets!
The Donkey and the Mule
A Peddler set off on his usual journey. All of the things he would sell along the
way were packed on his donkey and his mule. The donkey walked along easily until they started up the steep mountain path. The poor little donkey’s load was more than he could bear. He begged the mule to take a little bit of his load, so that he could carry the rest more easily. But the mule paid no attention. At last they reached the top of the mountain where there was a small inn. The donkey was so exhausted that he fell to the ground. The next morning the donkey still could not get to his feet. Not knowing what else to do, the Peddler added the donkey’s load to the mule’s load, and went on without the donkey. The mule’s load was heavy, but his heart was even heavier. “If only I had helped the donkey just a little, I would not have a double load myself,” he reflected.
During World War I, a number of severe shortages alerted the world's scientists to the need for synthetic, or man-made materials. Thus by 1934, a research team headed by Wallace H.Carothers had developed the first synthetic fiber, called nylon. As it turned out, the development of nylon had a surprisingly profound effect on world affairs. True, it�s first use was in fashion, and in 1939, the Dupont company began marketing sheer nylon hose for women. Nylons were a spectacular hit and sold off the shelves almost immediately. But they disappeared with the coming of World War II, as nylon became essential to the war effort. It was used in everything from parachutes and ropes, to insulation and coat linings. Sadly Carothers never witnessed the impact of his creation. He committed suicide two years before the first pair of nylons ever went on sale.
President Bush's education bill survived a double-barreled assault on Wednesday as the Senate upheld a requirement for annual math and reading tests and preserved an experimental program that would cut regulations in hopes of improving student performance.

The votes signaled that the bipartisan coalition behind the measure remained intact after last week's historic mid-session Senate shift to a Democratic majority. After a marathon debate lasting more than a month, final passage is expected as early as today.

Expecting final approval, Education Secretary Rod Paige said he hoped House and Senate negotiators could begin a "summer school session" and wrap up a final compromise quickly "so we can get school started with a smile."

Annual math and reading testing for students in the third through eighth grades is the cornerstone of Bush's effort to improve student achievement. Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., led the effort to add an amendment to make them optional by the states, rather than mandatory.
The energy that drives the water cycle is heat. When heat is added to ice, the ice melts into water. When heat is added to water, the water evaporates, turning from liquid into gas.
The Dirty Duck
The duck ran into the mud. He got dirty. The duck did not want to be dirty. I will take a bath in the lake, the duck says. The duck jumps into the lake. When he gets out of the water, he is not dirty.
At the Zoo

First I saw the white bear, then I saw the black;
Then I saw the camel with a hump upon his back;
Then I saw the grey wolf, with mutton in his maw;
Then I saw the wombat waddle in the straw; Then I saw the elephant a-waving of his trunk;
Then I saw the monkeys—mercy, how unpleasantly they smelt!
The Boat Parade

The boats are floating along the lakeshore. It is the summer boat parade.
There are motorboats, rowboats and sailboats.
Jessica’s favorite is the yellow motor boat with the flag. The rowboat decorated with flowers is Lisa’s favorite. Tony likes the purple sailboat.
The boats float by one at a time. The people on the boats waive at the crowds. The crowds cheer the boats.
The boat parade is so much fun to watch. It is the best part of the summer.
Ann Can’t Skate
Ann got roller skates for her birthday. “I can’t skate,” Ann said. “Try,” her mother told her.
“Try,” her father told her.
Ann tried. She was afraid. She fell.
“I can’t skate!” Ann cried.
“Try again,” her mother told her.
“Try again,” her father told her.
Ann tried again. She slipped. She wobbled. Then she rolled. Now Ann can skate!
Ballet
Ballet is a type of dance that dates back to the 15th century (in the 1400s). It is an art form that can be used to express a feeling, tell a story, or interpret a song. Ballet dancers are strong, graceful, and flexible. Ballet dancers may be men and women - ballet is not just for girls!
Many movements in ballet are unusual for the human body. Dancers turn their legs out, instead of having their knees and feet straight forward. They also point their feet and may even dance on the tips of their toes (but only when their teachers believe they are ready)! Not only do dancers need to control their bodies well to perform these types of movements, but they need to have a good understanding of music to be able to dance in time with it.
Dancers must go through a lot of training. Many take classes almost daily if they’d like to be professional ballet dancers. The movements are demanding on their bodies, so they need to practice often to keep up their strength. That also means that dancers need to take very good care of their bodies, though, so their bodies can keep up with the dancing! Dancers need to be well rested and eat healthy meals. They also should drink plenty of water and listen to their bodies by resting if that’s what their bodies need. They should start slowly when learning new steps, so their bodies have time to get used to the steps and not get injured.
In ballet class, most teachers begin by having dancers warm up their muscles at the barre. Dancers do movements such as the plié, tendu, dégagé, rond de jambe, and grand battement at the barre. Do these words seem unfamiliar to you? That’s probably because they are in French. Many ballet dancers are required to learn what these words mean in English as well as the French terminology.
After the warm up, dancers come to the center to practice other movements, as well as doing movements across the floor. Some of these movements are leaps and turns. Teachers and choreographers (people who create dance sequences) put these steps together to match the music and the story. Dancers practice the dances many times in class or practice before they appear onstage.
Stretching is an important part of dance class, as well, so that dancers can bring their legs up high to make beautiful lines. Many dancers stretch at both the beginning and end of class, but are careful to not overstretch their muscles when their muscles are not warmed up.
Ballet looks soft and graceful, but it really is an athletic activity. If you love to move your body and use it to tell stories, ballet might be a great activity for you to try!
Bear and Fox Share the Field
Fox looked out over the field. The newly planted corn just beginning to push green leafy tips up out of the ground, in long, neat rows. Fox trotted off to pay a visit to Bear. On the way to Bear’s den, Fox passed the apple tree, and picked up a freshly fallen apple to give to Bear. Bear was happy with the tasty treat, and agreed to Fox’s suggestion that this year they should share the field. Fox would have the tops of the crop, and Bear would have the roots.
When the crop was grown, Fox feasted on the sweet corn, while Bear got only the roots. Bear wasn’t very happy with this, but he didn’t argue. It was what they had agreed.
The next spring, Fox looked out over the field where the newly planted turnips were just beginning to grow, in long, neat rows. Fox trotted off to pay a visit to Bear, again stopping by the apple tree. “I’ll tell you what, Bear,” said Fox. “Just to be fair, this year you can have the tops, and I will be satisfied with the roots.”
Bear was happy with this arrangement, and spent many hours watching the new crop growing in the field. But when the crop was grown, Fox got all the sweet turnips, and Bear got only the bitter tops. Bear wasn’t happy with this, but it was what they had agreed. However, Bear never agreed to share the field with Fox again, apple or no apple.
At the Park
There is a nice park in town. There is a bench in the park. There is a fountain in the park. There are trees in the park. Mike likes to bike in the park. Fran likes to run in the park. Kim likes to picnic in the park. Everyone loves the park!

A Pool Fit for a Hedgehog
Summer was here, and it was a hot one! Cora the hedgehog was out foraging for food, trying to stay cool. She saw her friend Heather by her den. Heather was splashing around in her little pool outside.
“Hi Heather!” Cora called. “When did you get a pool?”
“Hi Cora! I just got it yesterday, it’s really helping cool me down. Would you like to join me?” Heather replied.
“I would love to, thanks!” They talked for a long while, and Cora had a lot of questions for Heather about the pool. She asked who Heather bought it from, if it was expensive, and if Heather thought she was going to use it a lot this summer.
“I saw a commercial for the pool company, and the commercial got me thinking about how nice a pool would be. I looked at reviews to see if other people liked their pools, and if the company did a good job. When I saw that the company did a good job, and that their price was similar to other companies, I decided to buy one! I would definitely recommend them to you. I think I’m going to love having a pool on hot days like this one!” Heather told Cora.
Cora thanked Heather for letting her cool off, and continued to look for food. As she was
looking for food and munching on delicious insects, she could not stop thinking about the pool. It did get awfully hot in the summertime, and water was hard to come by on the hot days. She decided to do some research of her own before making a decision.
She looked up hedgehog-sized pools, and the company Heather talked about was the first listing. She read the prices and the reviews other hedgehogs left about the company and the pools. It looked like they did a great job, and she even watched a video of the commercial Heather had seen! Then Cora looked up other companies. They all looked similar, but since Heather had a good experience with this company, Cora decided to go with the same one.
A week later, Cora was happily splashing in her own pool! Heather walked by, and Cora thanked her for the recommendation. It was one of the best summers yet!
In his sophomore year of high school, Michael Jordan tried out for the varsity basketball team at Laney High School in Wilmington, North Carolina. But at five feet and eleven inches tall, the coach believed that Jordan was too short to play at that level, so Jordan was cut from the team. Jordan didn’t let this obstacle defeat him. In fact, it pushed him to work even harder. He trained vigorously and grew another four inches the following summer. When he finally made the varsity squad, Jordan averaged 25 points a game and went on to become one of the greatest basketball players in history.
Anthony was making a snowman in his front yard. He wanted to make the tallest snowman ever. "Making the tallest snowman ever is hard," he thought to himself. As Anthony rolled the snow around to form huge spheres, Justin was watching him from the bushes. Justin had plans too, only his plans involved karate kicking Anthony's very tall snowman. Justin figured that no snowman deserved to be as tall as Anthony's. Justin stretched in preparation for his attack.
Alyssa put her groceries on the belt with care. She arranged the items by type. Heavy items were in the front, followed by boxes and cold items in the middle, and light and fragile items in the back. Much to her dismay, the bagger paid no regard to her sorting. He was putting the meats with the dry goods and the bananas under the canned goods. This irritated Alyssa to no end. She grabbed the bagger by the shoulder and said, "Please, let me do that." The bagger gave her a confused look. Alyssa nodded and smiled, even though her heart was filled with rage. The bagger slowly backed away.
Bones loaded the rifle on his lap. He wasn't sure he could win, but he knew he wasn't going down without a fight. He wasn't afraid, but he was nervous with anticipation. He knew that they were coming. Then three men on ATVs pulled up to his house. They were wearing leather jackets with red skulls on the back. One of the men wore a yellow band on his arm. He had a green Mohawk. He was the one who screamed, "Give us the girl and we'll let you live." Bones didn't believe them. He looked at the girl. Bones thought that she looked scared. He would never let them have her.
"You already told me that story," said Shanice. She looked genuinely disappointed. I laughed awkwardly. "Sorry," I said, "I didn't mean to bore you with a rerun." I tried to laugh it off but she just wouldn't let it go. "Don't you even consider your listener before you tell a story?" she inquired acerbically. This caught me off guard. I replied, "I'm just trying to keep you entertained, Shanice." I pleaded. She smacked me down with another sharp comment, "Yeah, well, you should try harder."
 The tombstone was in place, but there was a gaping hole where there was supposed to be a field of grass. "Oh, great," I said, "the body's been exhumed." Cliff looked at me curiously and asked, "What does 'exhumed' mean?" I pointed to the hole in the ground and replied with an irate tone, "Well, Cliff, there's an empty hole where the body is supposed to be. Based on the context of this situation, can you infer what 'exhumed' means?" Cliff shrugged his shoulders.
A bus drove by Kiko as she sat on the park bench. A woman pushed a double stroller with a set of twins down the sidewalk. Several pigeons approached Kiko. "Go away, flying rats. I do not have any food for you," Kiko shouted at the birds. They squawked and flew off. Kiko crossed her legs and took a deep breath. She picked up the newspaper, flipped through a few pages, and put it back down. Then her phone rang.
Chuck analyzed the engine. With his experienced gaze, he was able to tell that the vehicle needed a fan belt. He figured that the job would take twenty minutes and cost about ten dollars, but he had bills to pay. He summoned the customer over to him with a wave. "Ma'am," he said, "your vehicle needs a new radiator. It's going to take about four hours and cost around five hundred dollars, he lied. The woman smiled. "So I get my car back tonight?" she asked. "That shouldn't be a problem," replied Chuck. The woman, still smiling, said, "Thanks, Chuck. You're a good guy." Chuck felt a little guilty, but he smiled back at her and said, "You're so welcome."
 "She is your sister, and she is a part of our family. You will not treat her like that!" Mom yelled in the midst of her rampage. I can't explain why she was so mad at me. Maybe Sophia told her a lie. The truth is, I was so busy trying to keep my own activities together that I barely even noticed Sophia, or mom for that matter, but this was something new. "You walk around this place like a stranger apart!" Mom continued. I didn't even know what that meant. I didn't want to bother to think about it either. I just wanted her to stop yelling at me.
Mr. Pig and Mr. Dog were hanging out at the food court of the animal shopping mall. Mr. Pig was eating a huge feast of pizza and drinking a large jug of fruit punch and Mr. Dog was watching him eat. “Hey, Mr. Pig. If you give me a slice of your pizza, I’ll let you have the next bone I find.” Mr. Pig declined, even though it hurt his stomach to eat the last three slices of pizza. “I’m sorry, Mr. Dog,” Mr. Pig said, “but I paid for this pizza and it’s all mine.” Mr. Dog sighed and waited for Mr. Pig to finish, and then they left the animal mall together. On the way out, a hunter spotted them and gave chase. Mr. Pig normally could have escaped the hunter but since he was weighed down by such a large meal, Mr. Pig collapsed and the hunter killed him. Mr. Dog easily escaped. Later that night while returning to the scene, Mr. Dog caught the scent of something delicious and began digging around a trash can. He found a large ham bone with lots of meat and marrow still stuck to the bone. Mr. Dog happily ate.
Rocks
Are all rocks the same? No way! Rocks can be different shapes, sizes, textures, and colors. There are 3 different types of rocks that can affect what a rock looks and feels like. The three types of rocks are sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic.
Sedimentary rocks are a mixture of dirt, rocks, mud, shells, and other materials that are on the bottoms of oceans and other bodies of water, and get compacted together over many years. Sometimes you can even see different layers in sedimentary rocks. These types of rocks feel grainy, like sand, and are easier to crumble than other types of rocks. Sometimes sedimentary rocks will have plant or animal imprints!
The second type of rock is the igneous rock. These rocks are created from magma that cools and hardens. Many rocks start out as igneous rocks. Igneous rocks have glass crystals filled with minerals in them. They do not usually have layers, and are very smooth.
The third type of rock is the metamorphic rock. These rocks are formed when the other types of rocks are subjected to intense heat and pressure to change them. Metamorphic rocks are hard and smooth, like igneous rocks.
Just like plants and animals have a life cycle, rocks can go through a rock cycle! Many rocks start from magma or lava, so they are igneous rocks. The igneous rocks could get broken up in a river or stream and settle to the bottom of a lake. Over thousands or millions of years, the broken up rocks could get compacted into a sedimentary rock. The sedimentary rock could get exposed to intense heat, and change to a metamorphic rock. Then the metamorphic rock could get covered by many other rocks and end up deep in Earth’s crust. It may melt and turn into magma, and the cycle could start over again. The rock cycle is different than a life cycle of a plant or animal, though, because a rock doesn’t have to go through the cycle in order, and it may not go through all the stages.
Even though there are only three different types of rocks based on how they’re formed, each type actually has many different subcategories of rock. For example obsidian, granite, and basalt are three types of igneous rocks. This is why there are so many different colored rocks. Many people love to collect rocks because of how different each one can be.
The Camel and the Pig
Camel walked along the street, thinking aloud, “There’s nothing like being tall! Look how tall I am!”
Pig, hearing Camel’s bragging, said, “There’s nothing like being short! Look
how short I am!”
Camel was very offended by these words. “Why, I can prove to you that it is
far better to be tall. If I fail to prove this, I shall give up my hump.”
“And if I fail to prove that it is better to be short, I shall give up my curly tail,”
said Pig.
“Agreed!” said Camel.
“Agreed!” said Pig.
They came to a garden, surrounded by a low wall, with no gate. Camel stood outside the garden, reaching over the wall with his long neck to have a nice breakfast of the tender plants inside. He turned to Pig, who could not even see over the wall to get a look at all the good things in the garden. “Now, would you rather be tall or short?” Camel said to Pig. Pig did not reply.
Next they came to another garden, surrounded by a high wall, with a small covered gate on one end. Pig went through the gate, and feasted on the vegetables. When he came out, he laughed at Camel, who had had to stay outside because he was too tall to enter the garden through the small gate. “Now, would you rather be tall or short? Pig said to Camel. Camel did not reply.
Then they thought the matter over and came to the conclusion that Camel should keep his hump and Pig should keep his curly tail. For, as Pig observed, “Tall is good when tall is needed; of short, the same is true.”
A Balloon Ride
A man landed his balloon in the middle of a field. The man got out of the balloon, and went to the farmhouse. The animals went to see the balloon. There was a basket at the bottom of the balloon. The horse got in the basket. The hen got in the basket.
The pig got in the basket. Then the balloon went up. The man saw the balloon go up.
The man ran out. He was too late. The animals went for a ride!
The Ladybug
The ladybug is an insect. Like all insects, it has six legs. The ladybug has two sets
of wings. The outer set is the hard shell for protection. The inner set is what the
ladybug uses to fly. Many ladybugs are red and black, but they can also be yellow and black or orange and black. Some ladybugs even have stripes!
Ladybugs are good insects to have in your garden. They eat other bugs that can eat your vegetable plants.
An Honestly Fun Camp
Will couldn’t wait for September when school would start. It was early August, and he was at the same summer camp he had been going to for the last five years. His dad went to the camp when he was a boy and loved it, so Will didn’t want to disappoint his dad by telling him that he didn’t even like it.
By the middle of August, Will had had more than enough. He had had enough of the horses, enough of the baseball games, enough of the canoeing and enough of the lousy camp food.
He wrote to his mom and asked her if she would pick him up early, but he didn’t want his mom to tell his dad. She responded in a letter which said, “I can’t do that. I am always honest with your dad. If you really want to leave, I will talk to him about it.”
Will was still too worried about disappointing his dad, so he wrote back to his mom that he would stay for the last two weeks and try to make the best of it. He asked his mom if she would make his favorite meal when he got home.
During that last week, Will was looking so forward to the meal his mom would be making that every time he ate a camp meal he imagined he was eating his mom’s cooking. All of a sudden, the food didn’t taste as bad. Will decided to be honest with his camp counselors. He told the head horseback counselor that he wasn’t comfortable with the horse he had been assigned. The counselor asked Will which horse he might feel better riding. Will was then assigned to Misty for the last week, and he started to like horseback riding.
Will never liked playing baseball because he didn’t like playing 1st base. He told the baseball counselor, and the counselor switched him to play catcher. Will started to actually like baseball.
As for canoeing, Will always ended up sitting in the bow of the canoe. He told his counselor that he would like to try sitting in the stern. Once he was able to take on the role of the stern paddler, he started to enjoy canoeing because he liked steering the canoe.
When Will’s parents came to pick him up from camp, he said to them in all honesty, “This was the best summer at camp ever.” He then added that he couldn’t wait for next year’s camp, and he might even want to stay for an extra week or two.
All About Bears

There are many kinds of bears. Some bears live in warm places, like sun bears. Some bears live in cold places, like polar bears. Bears are different colors, too. They can be white, brown, or black. Some bears eat plants. Some bears eat animals.
Bears have long snouts, or noses. They have claws and fur, too. Baby bears are called cubs.
When it gets cold, bears sleep in dens for the winter. Dens can be in trees or caves.
When they are sleeping all winter, it is called hibernating. Bears do not eat when they are hibernating.
The New Bicycle

Emma has a new bicycle. It is bright pink and shiny. It was a gift from her uncle. He hid it behind a bush to surprise her.
When Emma looked behind the bush and saw the bicycle, she jumped for joy. It was just what she wanted. She gave her uncle a big hug. She loves her new bicycle, and she loves her uncle.
Carl is a Cat
Carl is a cat. Carl likes to take walks. Carl likes to play. Carl likes to eat fish. At the end of the day, Carl curls up and sleeps by the fire. You are a good cat, Carl!
Few provisions of the Bill of Rights grew so directly out of the experience of the colonials as the Fourth Amendment, embodying as it did the protection against the utilization of the "writs of assistance." But while the insistence on freedom from unreasonable searches and seizures as a fundamental right gained expression in the Colonies late and as a result of experience,\1\ there was also a rich English experience to draw on. "Every man's house is his castle" was a maxim much celebrated in England, as was demonstrated in Semayne's Case, decided in 1603.\2\ A civil case of execution of process, Semayne's Case nonetheless recognized the right of the homeowner to defend his house against unlawful entry even by the King's agents, but at the same time recognized the authority of the appropriate officers to break and enter upon notice in order to arrest or to execute the King's process. Most famous of the English cases was Entick v. Carrington,\3\ one of a series of civil actions against state officers who, pursuant to general warrants, had raided many homes and other places in search of materials.
What Causes Snow?
We know that it is not just the cold that causes it to snow.
There are many cold wintery days without snow. And sometimes even when the temperature is below freezing we have rain instead of snow. So what causes snow?
Snow starts the same way that rainstorms start. A large mass of warm air and a large mass of cold air come together high above the earth. Sometimes the warm air is stronger, and it pushes the cold air up. Then we have warmer weather on the ground. Other times the cold air is stronger and it pushes the warm air up. Then we have colder weather on the ground. And when that happens, the clouds in the warm air get colder and colder as they are pushed higher and higher. This causes something very interesting to happen.
Clouds are made when water vapor in the air is warmed. As it cools, the water vapor changes into droplets of water so tiny that they are invisible, but we can easily see the cloud that they form. In warm air, when enough of these tiny droplets collect in a cloud they gather into larger drops that are heavy enough to fall as rain. But when a warm cloud gets pushed up into very cold air, the water vapor changes directly into ice, instead of changing into water first. (The opposite process would be heating an ice cube so hot and fast that it turned into water vapor without turning into water first!) When enough of these tiny pieces of ice are formed, they gather into the form of snowflakes that become heavy enough to fall to the ground.
If the air under the snow cloud is cold enough, the snowflakes fall all the way to the ground. If the air is both cold and dry, the snowflakes fall as the small powdery flakes that don’t stick together. If the air is cold and damp, the snowflakes begin to melt around the edges and stick together as they fall. These snowflakes fall to the ground as large flakes that stick together easily, and are ideal for making a snowman!
The Fox and the Little Red Hen
Once upon a time there was a little red hen. She lived in a little white house, and she had a little green garden. Every day she worked in the house and garden.
Near her home lived a family of foxes. One day Mamma Fox said to Papa Fox, “I want a fat hen to eat.” There was nothing in the pantry for the baby foxes, so Papa Fox started out to find something for them all.
He ran down the road until he came to the woods. “Surely I will find something here,” he said, but he found nothing to eat in the woods. As he came near the little green garden he said, “Oh, I smell fresh cake. Oh, I smell a little red hen.”
Sure enough, there was the Little Red Hen eating her cake.
Papa Fox snuck up quietly behind her and grabbed her and put her into the bag on his back; then he ran quickly off down the hill toward his home.
The Little Red Hen was so frightened that she could only whisper, “Oh, dear. Oh, dear. Oh, dear.”
Just then she had to sneeze, and when she put her claw into her pocket for her handkerchief, she felt her little scissors. Quick as a flash she took them out and cut a little hole in the bag. Peeping out she saw a great hill just ahead, all covered with stones. As Papa Fox stopped to rest on his way up the hill, with his back turned toward her, she cut a big hole in the bag, jumped out and quickly put a big stone in the bag in her place.
As Papa Fox kept on up the hill, he thought the bag was pretty heavy, but he said, “Never mind, she is a fat little red hen.”
Mamma Fox met him at the front door with all the baby foxes.
“The water is boiling,” said she. “What do you have in your bag?” asked the Baby Foxes.
“A fat, little, red hen,” said Papa Fox.
As he held the bag over the pot, he said to Mamma Fox, “When I drop her in, you clap on the lid.” So he opened the bag. Splash went the boiling water. It spilled all over Papa Fox and Mamma Fox and the Baby Foxes. Never again did they try to catch the Little Red Hen.
Japanese KENDO is a traditional Japanese style of fencing with a two-handed wooden sword, derived from the fighting methods of the ancient samurai. The unification of Japan about 1600 removed most opportunities for actual sword combat, so the samurai turned swordsmanship into a means of cultivating discipline, patience, and skill for building character.

In the 18th century, practice armour and the shinai, a sword made of bamboo (shinai), were introduced to allow realistic fencing without risk of injury. The study of what came to be known as kendo was even compulsory in Japanese schools from time to time.

An All-Japan Kendo Federation was formed following the end of the occupation in 1952, and an International Kendo Federation was founded in 1970. Kendo matches take place in an area 9 to 11 m (about 30 to 36 feet) square. Contestants wear the traditional jacket, long divided skirt, chest protector, waist protector, mask, padded gloves.

All blows use the "cutting" edge of the shinai, though this is not sharp. The shinai is usually held with both hands. Points are awarded for blows delivered upon the left side, right side, or top of the head; the right or left wrist; the right or left side of the trunk; and for a thrust to the throat. These are the only scoring areas. The name of the point struck must be called out simultaneously by the attacker with his blow and is verified by judges. A contest is won by the first combatant who scores two points. Kendo is widely practiced among students (required in high schools), police, and military groups in Japan and to a lesser extent in the United States, Canada, Great Britain, and Brazil.
Horses
Horses are beautiful creatures. They can be different colors, and can run quickly. People like to watch horses because they are strong and powerful.
Horses are mammals. Mammals are animals that have hair or fur, are warm-blooded, and usually give birth to live young. The mother horse generally has one baby in the spring, and feeds the baby milk. Horses have long legs, and big eyes that can see almost all the way around them. They can walk, trot, gallop and jump.
Young horses that are one year old or younger are called foals. A young female horse is called a filly, and a young male horse is called a colt. After 4 years, a horse is considered an adult. Many people think that a pony is a young horse, but that is incorrect. A pony is a type of horse that does not grow very large.
Horses can live up to 20 or 25 years. Sometimes people can tell how old a horse is by looking at its teeth! They generally sleep standing up, so that if a predator approaches, they can run away quickly. Horses only need about three hours of sleep per day! Their hooves need to be taken care of. Horse hooves are like our fingernails, which need to be trimmed. If a horse is doing a lot of walking on hard ground, people put horseshoes on them, then take off the horseshoes when the hooves need trimming. New horseshoes are then put on.
For food, horses eat foods such as grass, hay, oats, corn, apples, and carrots. They are herbivores, meaning they do not eat other animals. Their stomachs are small, so they need small, frequent feedings.
There are wild horses, but many people have horses as pets, too. They ride the horses and may teach the horses tricks. When people first started to take horses as pets, they were just used for work. The horses would pull carriages so people could ride places, or plows so the farmers could more easily tend their fields. Horses were also used to move goods from place to place, by carrying objects on their backs. Some horses now work as therapy horses. These horses help people with disabilities become more calm and comfortable, or work muscles they might not otherwise be able to work.
When these strong creatures are treated with care, they make wonderful companions. What else do you know about horses?
A robotic NASA explorer is poised to set sail Monday, July 30 on a mission to catch the solar wind and then return to Earth with a representative sampling of the primordial stuff that seeded the solar system.

Some 4.6 billion years after an interstellar cloud of gas, dust and ice collapsed and spawned the Sun and its attendant planets, the spacecraft will blast off in late July for a distant space harbor where conditions remain much the same as those at hand when the solar system formed.

Pristine material tossed off the turbulent sun then will be snatched up before the spacecraft swings back by Earth, flinging a sample return capsule toward a daring helicopter recovery over the Utah desert in September 2004.

The scientific prize: A cache of interplanetary matter that could enable 21st century researchers to decipher the elemental and isotopic make-up of the original solar nebula
The Greedy Man
There once was a very greedy man who sold everything he owned and bought a brick of gold. He buried the gold brick behind a hut that was across the road from his shabby old house. Every day, the greedy man went across the road and dug up his gold brick to look at it.
After a while, a workman noticed the greedy man going across the road every day, and decided to follow him. The next day, the greedy man dug down for his gold brick, but the hole was empty. He pulled at his hair, and cried out in sorrow. “My beautiful gold brick!” he wept.
A neighbor came running, and asked the greedy man what had happened. When the greedy man told him, the neighbor just shrugged his shoulders. “Why be so sad?” said the neighbor. Just go get a rock and put it in that hole, and pretend that it is gold. It will do you as much good as the gold did.”
There are few Americans who are not familiar with Patrick Henry's cry "give me liberty or give me death." This fiery speech is popular not only as a document of the revolutionary struggle but as one of the great speeches of all time. Patrick Henry served in the French and Indian Wars and first attracted attention as the leader of the objections to the Stamp Act in the Virginia House of Burgesses. In this speech, he argues that the colonists have no other choice after exhausting all the avenues for reconciliation with Britain.
In the Southern Colonies, there were many large farms called plantations. Farmers who owned plantations were called planters. Crops grown on plantations included rice and tobacco.

As planters became wealthy, they became dissatisfied with their old houses. They started building two-story houses. Some of them were even made of brick. Rough, hand-made furniture was replaced with nicely made tables and chairs, some of them ordered from England. Wooden plates, bowls, and spoons were replaced by ones made of pewter, a silvery metal made from tin and lead. Silver was expensive in those days, and a family might have bought silverware piece by piece.

After a new house was built, the old house might be used as a kitchen. Servants carried food in covered dishes to the dining room in the new house.

Southern colonists could not expect help from their neighbors, because they were spread far apart. They had to be able to produce almost everything they needed on their plantations. Of the few things they could not produce themselves, most came directly from England to their plantations. Plantations often had their own ships and piers on the river.

Rich planters might have owned hundreds of slaves. All these slaves had to work hard from early morning to evening and slept in crowded slave quarters. Unskilled slaves worked in the fields. Trusted slaves worked in the house. Trained slaves worked as carpenters, weavers, blacksmiths, shoemakers, furniture makers, and cooks. In those days, plantations were like small towns.
The Peddler’s Mule
A Peddler took his mule to the seacoast to buy salt. On the way home, they crossed a shallow stream where the mule accidentally slipped and fell. All of the salt in the bags dissolved, and the mule’s load was much lighter. The Peddler went back and bought even more salt than before. When they came to the stream, the mule fell down on purpose. When he got up, his load was again much lighter than before. The Peddler saw through the mule’s trick, and went back to the seacoast a third time. This time, instead of salt, he bought a cargo of sponges. Again, the mule fell down when they reached the stream. The sponges filled with water, and greatly increased his load. This time he had only tricked himself.
The Tangled Feet Problem

On a hot day, a group of children were sitting by a pond. They wanted to have some fun. They took off their shoes and put their feet in the pond. They splashed around a little. After a while, they got bored.
Just then an old man walked by. One of the children said, “Let’s have some fun with him!” They all laughed and planned to play a trick on him. The children called to the man, “Oh
uncle! Please, come here. We have a big problem!”
The old man walked over to the children. He looked worried and he wanted to help the children. “What is it?” he asked.
“Our feet are tangled. We cannot tell whose feet belong to who!” The children giggled and winked at each other.
The old man was wise but also kind.
He understood that the children were not serious. He did not get angry or scold the children. Instead, he played along. He said, “That sounds like a serious problem, but I think I can help.”
The old man found a long stick. Then he came back to the pond and tickled the children’s feet with it.
Each child whose feet he tickled would start laughing loudly. The child would laugh so hard that he would roll out of the water. One after another, the children and their feet rolled out of the pond.
“There, I have solved your problem!” said the wise man.
Summer Nights

It is nighttime in the summer. Luke, Jake and Connor look up at the sky. Jake sees the Milky Way. Luke points to the moon. It is a half moon. Connor looks at all of the bright stars.
After they study the sky, they collect fireflies in a jar. They hear an owl hoot loudly from a nearby tree.
The boys love being outside on summer nights. They sleep in a tent so they can stay out all night.
When they are ready to go bed, they climb into the tent and use the fireflies as a nightlight. They let the fireflies go in the morning so they can catch them again the next time they sleep outside.
Anthony’s teacher, Mr. Rivera, gave the class a different kind of homework assignment. The assignment was to watch the weather report on television every night for a week. Mr. Rivera told the students some things to listen for as they watched each night’s report. He also gave them a worksheet to fill out while they watched.
Mr. Rivera said to look at the large weather map that they would see behind the weather reporter. He told them that they might see a large blue line or a large red line on the map. There might be both a blue line and a red line. He said that a blue line is a high pressure area that usually brings dry weather. A red line is a low pressure area that usually brings wet weather. When blue and red lines meet, there usually is stormy weather on the way.
On the worksheet there was a box to fill in with the expected high temperature for the next day. There were other boxes to check if it was expected to rain, or to be cloudy, or to be windy.
Anthony watched the weather report and filled in the worksheet each night. He noticed that the next day was usually a lot like the report said it would be. One day’s weather map showed a blue line right next to a red line, and the next day there was a rainstorm. Anthony decided that he liked this kind of homework assignment.
The sun is a star. It is made of gases. The sun is very
hot. The sun is very far away. It takes 8 minutes for
light from the sun to reach the earth. When the
earth turns towards the sun, it is day on that side of
the earth. When the earth turns away from the sun, it is night on that side of the earth.
The Magpie’s Nest
Of all the birds in the air, the magpie builds the very best nest. Long ago, all
the birds came to Magpie and asked her to teach them how to build nests. So Magpie got them all together and began to show them how to do it.
First, she took some mud and patted it into the shape of a pancake. “Ah ha!” said Thrush, and away she flew. So Thrush still builds her nest out of mud.
Then Magpie arranged some twigs around in the mud. “Well of course,” said Owl, and away she flew. Owls have never made better nests than that.
Magpie turned the edges of the pancake up into a bowl shape, and put more twigs around the outside. “What a good idea!” said Sparrow, and Sparrow makes messy nests to this day.
And so it went on. Each bird took away some knowledge of how to build nests, but none of them waited to the end. Finally, only silly Turtle-dove was left, and she hadn’t been paying any attention all along. She had just been sitting there saying her silly cry. “Take two, take two-o-o-o. Take two, take two-o-o.”
Magpie was adding the last twig to her lovely nest. “Take two, take two-o-o” cried Turtle-dove.
Magpie looked at Turtle-dove. “One’s enough,” she said.
But the Turtle-dove kept on saying, “Take two, take two-o-o.”
Then Magpie got angry. “One’s enough, I tell you.”
Still Turtle-dove repeated, “Take two, take two-o-o. Take two, take two-o-o.” At last, Magpie got even angrier. No one but silly Turtle-dove was left to see her lovely nest that she had worked so long to build. She flew away to find some worms, and refused to show the birds how to build a nest again. And that is why different birds build their nests differently.
About Soils
Soil is found on the upper most layer of the Earth. It is made up of a mixture of rock, minerals, plants, and some living/dead animals (mostly insects). This nutrient-rich layer of soil extends downward a few feet. This is about how far the roots of plants grow.
Soil is made up of all the nutrients needed by plants to live. Some areas of the world like desert regions have very poor soil. Here, it is difficult for complex plant life to take hold. Tropical rainforests also have poor soil. Yes, the rainforest region gets enough rainfall to grow plants, but the poor soil found in rainforests is caused by so many living plants. These plants have the nutrients right inside themselves, so nutrients are not abundantly found in the soil.
For over a million years, the soil of the Earth has been developing. Weather has played an important role in shaping the soil. The top rocky layer of the Earth has been ground down into smaller and finer grains. Plants and animals (mostly insects) have helped to deposit nutrients.
An important part of the soil is the living part. Bacteria (any microscopic plant that lives in soil, water, or organic matter), algae (any plant as a seaweed of a group that forms the lowest division of the plant kingdom and includes mostly plants growing in water that are usually brown or red coloring), and fungi (any group of flowerless plants like molds, rusts, mildews, and mushrooms that lack chlorophyll and live on dead or decaying organic matter) are living parts of the soil. They help more complex life forms live.
The soil under our feet has a darker color than the dirt. This darker color is caused by the plants and animals (living and dead) that are found within it.
Soil is formed from geology, climate, topography, biology, and by passing time.
♦ Geology is the land.
♦ Climate is the temperature and weather conditions.
♦ Topography is the type of landform.
♦ Biology deals with the living organisms and their life
processes.
♦ And, time is the period of an action.
Maybe the next time when you sit on the grass to have a picnic, get your shoes dirty or walk barefoot, you will be reminded of the importance that soil has on life in this world.
Ants
Ants like to be around other ants. They live in
large groups called colonies. There are many
kinds of ants in the world. One thing all ants
have in common is that they can lift twenty
times their body weight. The ant in this picture is lifting a leaf.
Ants don’t have ears. They hear with their feet by feeling vibrations in the ground. Ants don’t have lungs either. Oxygen enters their body through little holes called spiracles.
Rocco hopped over the puddle. He landed with a thud. Jenny looked at him from the other side of the puddle. She said, "Well, aren't you going to throw your coat over it for me?" Rocco laughed and said, "Come on. You can make it. I'll catch you." Jenny scowled at Rocco and said, "There's no way. You just want me to fall in the puddle. Lay down your jacket." Rocco scoffed. Jenny put her hands on her hips, crossed her arms, and started tapping her foot.
The scarecrow sagged on the pole. The corn reached for the heavens. A man dressed in gray was walking through the cornfield. The field rustled as he parted the spears. Soon he reached a breach in the field. A road cut across the landscape. The man in gray began walking down the road toward the sun. He walked to a farmhouse and knocked on the door. A man in a white shirt opened the door. "May I help you?" the white shirted man asked. The man in gray responded, "My name is Julius Cornwall. I've travelled from the future to deliver a message to you."
"Ding!" Katie looked at her phone. It was a text message from Jeff. "Ugh! Not now," she said to herself. She was mad at Jeff for a comment that he had made the last time that they spoke. Meanwhile, while Katie was ignoring Jeff, he was at home trying to figure out why Katie was mad at him. "Did I say something that might have made her angry?" he thought to himself. "No, I have been a perfect gentleman," he concluded.
Juan held the space rock in his hand and imagined that he was on the moon. He started bouncing around the gymnasium as though he were in a zero gravity setting. Mr. Worser chased after him and said, "Juan, put that moon rock back on the table!" Juan couldn't hear Mr. Worser because Juan was so involved in his imaginary scenario. "Beep! Commander, bring the lunar rover in for a landing," Juan was saying to himself. Mr. Worser grabbed Juan by the shoulder. This brought Juan back to reality.
Sid saw the ball floating through the air. He knew it was coming to him. He positioned himself where he thought it was going to land. Then a large cloud moved in the sky. The sun blazed and Sid couldn't see anything. "Thump!" the ball landed right in front of Sid. Coach yelled across the field, "Pick it up, Sid! Throw it to second." Sid couldn't see the ball in front of him. All he could see were spots. The coach threw his hat on the ground and continued to yell, "Pick it up, Sid!"
Congratulations on purchasing the Tatakai Warriors: Fighting for Peanut Butter computer game. Before you install this program, you'll need to make sure that you have at least 24 kb of free space on your installation target. Insert the cd rom disc into your drive. The disc should run automatically. Select "Full Install" from the installation menu. The program will begin installing on your target drive. This might take up to twenty-four hours. Once installation is complete, an alert box should appear. If you see a successful installation message, remove the disc from the drive and enjoy the adventure!
"Do you want to take the shot, Vince?" The coach asked me. I looked into his eyes. They were ice-cold blue. His face did not betray his feelings, but I knew that he meant it. "I do, Coach. I can make the shot." I replied. He nodded and then put his hand on top of my head. "I don't know how long any of us will live, but we will all remember what happens next for as long as we do." He then slapped me on the back. The referee blew the whistle and it was time to find out just how I would be remembered.
 Texas Joe pointed his shotgun at the rustler. "Well, mister, I can't very well let you take my horse," said Texas Joe. The rustler's eyes darted back and forth and he said, "Please, Mister, let me go. I promise you won't regret it." Texas Joe put his gun back into his poncho and said, "It's your lucky day, partner." The rustler replied, "Yours too, mister. There's a hunting party sneaking up on you right now." Then the rustler ran. Texas Joe drew his weapon again and turned around.
The stage was bordered with colorful lights but otherwise dark, yet in the center was a single spotlight, and in the center of that was microphone stand. I slowly walked across the stage with my hands by my side. The crowd murmured. I grabbed the microphone from the stand and cleared my throat. Then I held it a few inches from my face and said, "Greetings, my fellow Thunderhawks. Are you ready to get excited for the pep rally?" One guy clapped slowly.
Pete didn't feel like doing homework. He felt like playing baseball. He grabbed his mitt off the shelf and began to fantasize about being out in the field. His fantasy was interrupted shortly by the opening of his bedroom door. It was his mom. She started to yell, "Pete, you're not failing baseball class! You're failing math class! You need to study. Put the mitt away!" Pete put the mitt away, but he didn't know the first thing about studying math.
"Crash!" The sound of falling bowling pins fills the air. You walk to the counter and address the attendant. You mention that he has given you shoes in the wrong size. He politely corrects the error. You walk back to your party. It is your turn. You put on your shoes, find your ball, and approach the lane. You wait until the lanes are clear. Then you waddle up to the lane and roll the ball between your legs, grandma style. Your friends cheer. The bumpers ensure that the roll is devastating.
 Germs are one of the leading causes of illnesses. You can prevent the spread of germs by following these simple tips. First, wash your hands thoroughly after you go to the bathroom. Flicking your hands under running water is not enough. You must use soap and lather for 20 seconds. Next, clean your home with a disinfecting agent. Germs can linger on surfaces for a long time, but you can wipe them out with disinfectant. Lastly, air out your house from time to time, weather permitting. Fresh air will reduce the amount of airborne germs lingering in your home.
Facts and Opinions Men of Destiny
“Be sure you are right. Then, go ahead.” This was the motto of David (Davy) Crockett. Born in 1786, Crockett loved hunting and the outdoors. He taught himself how to read and write and to do math.
Crockett married Mary Finely and became a farmer. He moved his family to Tennessee and later joined the United Sates army as a soldier and fought several battles against the Native American Indians. Crockett served as a scout and a hunter for the army.
His first wife died and he remarried. Crockett became a politician and he was elected to the legislature and later to Congress. He gave short speeches and included stories
that poor settlers could understand and appreciate. Crockett acted as their spokesman and proposed bills to reduce taxes, to settle land disputes, and to protect general economic interests.
Crockett disagreed with President Andrew Jackson on many issues, especially removing Native American Indians from their land. He published an autobiography about himself called A Narrative of the Life of David Crockett of the State of Tennessee.
Other people wrote books about Davy Crockett’s life as a frontiersman and this fame made him a national hero. Davy Crockett moved to Texas in 1835, and he was killed in the battle of the Alamo in San Antonio in 1836.
James Bowie is famous for the “Bowie knife” and is remembered also for being a true folk hero in early Texas. Bowie always carried a knife since he was involved in a famous feud against a sheriff in Mississippi when Bowie was 31-years-old.
The design of the hunting knife changed throughout the years, and today it has a blade a little longer than 8 inches and it is 11⁄4 inches wide, with a curved point and a cross- guard to protect the user’s hand.
This incident and the fact that Bowie would always carry a hunting knife made Bowie a folk hero and soon he was seen as a superb knife fighter across the South. Bowie continued to use his knife to protect himself.
Bowie was born in Kentucky in 1796. He moved to Missouri, and then to Louisiana and later to Mississippi. Finally, Bowie moved to Texas in 1828.
Bowie took part in several adventures and he was friends with many Indians in his search for silver and gold in Texas. Some people say he found the San Saba Mines, also known as the Bowie Mines, near the center of the state.
In the Texas Revolution, Bowie was a leader. He was a commander for the volunteer force to fight against the Mexicans in the hope of gaining independence. Bowie contacted pneumonia and he was confined to a cot at the time of his death in March of 1836, at the Battle of the Alamo. Stephen Austin was born in 1793, and he is known as an American leader of colonization in Texas.
Because of the strong role he played in colonization, he is also known as “The Father of Texas”. Austin grew up in Missouri and studied at a university in Kentucky, served in the Missouri legislature, and studied law.
When his father died, Austin took over to lead 300 families to Texas in 1822. This was the beginning of colonizing the land between the Brazos and Colorado Rivers, which was then the Mexican Tejas. He also helped the new colonists and the people of the Mexican Government talk to each other. Through these discussions, Austin helped colonization work. He helped design a legal system and wrote policies for immigration.
Austin served time in prison for his strong beliefs of independence, and upon being dismissed from prison in 1835 he continued to oppose the government of Santa Anna.
These were strong factors which led to the Texas Revolution. Austin served as Secretary of State of the Republic of Texas.
The capital of Texas, Austin County, Austin Bayou, Stephen F. Austin State University, Austin College, as well as a number of public schools in Texas are named in his honor. Maybe you know of a school that is named for Stephen Austin.
Stephen Austin’s role in Texas will always be remembered.
Max’s Best Friend
Max sat by the window looking at the street. Soon his best friend would be home. It
would be the most fun time of the day.
Then the school bus came and Alexander got off the bus, came up the walk and into the house.
Max’s tail was already wagging to greet Alexander. Alexander gave Max a big hug and said, “I’m hungry! Are you ready for our snack?”
Max didn’t answer. He just followed Alexander to the kitchen. Alexander ate a banana and gave Max a small biscuit. Then Alexander put on his play clothes and the two buddies went outside to play together.
They played for a long time until Alexander said, “Come on Max, we better do some homework before supper.”
Max wanted to play some more but he was happy to help with homework as long as he could be with his best friend.
The Rocking Horse
Billy has a rocking horse. The rocking horse is called Pete. Billy rides Pete every day. He rides across fields. He rides across prairies. He rides over mountains. At the end of the day, Billy puts Pete in his barn at the end of Billy’s bed. In the morning, Billy gets Pete back out of the barn, and they go off riding again!
Hans in Luck
The blacksmith gave Hans a bag of gold coins as payment for the year of work, and Hans set off to visit his mother. The bag of gold coins was heavy, so Hans threw it over his shoulder to make walking easier. A horseman came along, and Hans said aloud, “How nice it would be to have a horse to ride!”
The rider stopped. “Then why do you travel on foot, my fine fellow?” he said.
“Because I have no horse,” said Hans. And I must carry this bag of gold that is so heavy it hurts my shoulder.”
“If you like, we can trade,” said the rider.
“Hurrah!” cried Hans. But soon the horse began to trot, and it pitched Hans into a ditch. A farmer who was walking with his cow helped Hans to his feet.
“What a bad thing riding is!” Hans exclaimed. “You are lucky to have a cow to walk behind, and you also have milk every day.”
“Well,” said the farmer, “if you like, we can trade.”
Hans was overjoyed, and the farmer rode off in a hurry. But the cow kicked Hans every time he tried to milk her. So he traded the cow for an old woman’s pig. But the lazy pig kept sitting down by the side of the road. So Hans traded his pig for a herder’s goose. After a while, Hans came to a grinder who was sharpening some knives with a grindstone. As you might guess, Hans traded his goose for the grindstone which was, in fact, just an ordinary stone.
Hans walked along. The stone seemed to get heavier by the minute. He stopped at a stream to get a drink of water, and accidentally dropped the stone into the water. It quickly sank to the bottom and was buried in the muddy depths.
Hans jumped for joy. He was free of that heavy stone, and every other problem besides. “I am the luckiest man under the sun!” he cried. And he hopped and skipped happily along the road until he reached his mother’s house.
Whales are the biggest creatures that have ever lived on the earth. They are even bigger than the biggest dinosaurs were. Scientists think that whales once walked on land. They believe this because whales are not fish—they are mammals.
Not only are whales the biggest creatures on earth, they also are some of the smartest. They live in family groups. They communicate with each other, and hunt for food in groups. Mother whales keep their babies close by, and give them gentle taps to guide them in the right direction. Sometimes a whale will lift its head out of the water just to take a look around.
Because whales are mammals, they must breathe air. They breathe through a blowhole on their back. However, they can hold their breath for a very long time. Some kinds of whales can hold their breath for two hours at a time. Whales never really sleep. Instead, they swim along with their blowhole above the water.
Many kinds of whales migrate to warmer waters during the winter months. During the summer, they build up a layer of fat so that during migration they do not have to eat. Bears also eat during the summer to build up a layer of fat so that they can sleep during the winter. Some scientists think the prehistoric whales may have looked like gigantic bears.
There is a new water park in town.
We go there on the first day of summer.
It has pools and water slides.
There are sprinklers too.
The slides are scary at first.
After the first ride, we love the water slides.
The sprinklers are cool on hot days.
One of the pools makes its own waves.
All the kids try to surf the waves. It is really fun.
The water park can be very crowded.
There are many kids and adults, but they do not allow pets.
We really like the ice cream at the snack bar.
They also sell pop and donuts. We all love the new water park.
The Puppy and the Kitten

My family just adopted a puppy and a kitten from the animal shelter. They were so young, they did not even have names yet. We had to think of good names for them.
The puppy likes to jump up. The kitten likes to curl up in our laps.
“What do you want to name them?” asked Mom.
My sister said, “Pounce for the puppy and Cuddles for the kitten.”
We all thought those names were perfect.
The Sun Has Set

The sun has set, and the pond is still.
John, Ned, Ben, Tom and Nell stand on the bank and look at the duck. The dog with a black spot on his back is with Tom. See! Tom has his hat in his hand. He has left his toy car on the box.
Kitty's doll is on the rock. Nell has put her pet in the cage. It will sing a sweet song. The duck has her nest under the rock.
It is not hot now. Let us run and skip on the bank. Do you not think it is fun?
In the 1870s, the Welsh explorer Henry Morton Stanley navigated the Congo river under the sponsorship of King Leopold of Belgium.

Wherever he stopped, he made treaties with the African chiefs he encountered. As a result, when Stanley returned to Europe, King Leopold was able to take possession of an area eighty times the size of Belgium. Leopold promptly called the area the Belgium Congo and turned it into his own private goldmine, almost destroying the Congo in the process.

Under Leopold's rule, the Congolese were faced with impossibly high taxes and forced into slave labor. Agents of the Belgian government would give each Congolese family a basket to fill with rubber. If members of the family did not return the basket with the required number of pounds of rubber, their home would be burned to the ground. Anyone who rebelled would be put in prison. Meanwhile, Leopold grew enormously rich, squandering his blood money on yachts, mansions, and mistresses. To keep the Belgian people quiet, he also expended enormous sums on public works. Nevertheless, public opinion against Leopold and his vicious ways grew stronger.

Ultimately he was forced to give up his stranglehold on the Congo, but not before millions of people had been imprisoned and thousands had died.
The Frogs Who Wanted a King
The Frogs decided that they should have a King. They called to the Ruler of all Animals and begged him to give them a King. The Ruler saw the silliness of the request, and threw a large log into the lake. The Frogs were terrified by the splash. But when the waters grew still they looked at the huge log. It wasn’t moving, so they went and sat on it. After a while, the Frogs decided that the Ruler had not sent them a very good king, so they called to him again. This time he sent an Eel to be their King. The Eel was so kind and gentle that the Frogs called to the Ruler a third time. This time he sent a Heron. The Heron looked at the Frogs hungrily, and began to chase them. They found another lake where they lived happily, and they never asked for a King again.
The Traveler
A man who had traveled far and wide came home to his small village. He gathered the villagers together to tell them of all the wonderful things he had done in all the places he had visited.
In Russia, he had cut bricks of ice and built a palace. In China, he had flown the best dragon kite anyone had ever seen. In Africa, he had chased a lion. In Australia, he had jumped farther than the kangaroos. He had jumped farther than any man alive.
The villagers listened with interest at first, and then began to smile. They turned to walk away, but the traveler said that there were many people in Australia who had seen his jump. They would be happy to be his witnesses.
One of the villagers turned back to the traveler. “My good man,” he said. You need no witnesses. “Just pretend this is Australia, and show us.”
Abraham Lincoln is often referred to as "The Great Emancipator" and yet, he did not publicly call for emancipation throughout his entire life. Lincoln began his public career by claiming that he was "antislavery" -- against slavery's expansion but not calling for immediate emancipation. However, the man who began as "antislavery" eventually issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which freed all slaves in those states that were in rebellion. He vigorously supported the 13th Amendment which abolished slavery throughout the United States, and, in the last speech of his life, he recommended extending the vote to African Americans.
Spider monkeys are large in size. Adult monkeys grow to be almost two feet tall excluding the tail. They have a powerful tail that they use as an extra limb. Spider monkeys like to hang upside-down with all four limbs and the tail holding on to branches which makes them look like a spider and thus their name. They also have the ability to swing from branch to branch at a high speed. Their fur color can be black, brown, golden, red, or tan.

Spider monkeys spend most of their time high up in the canopy where they can find fruits and seeds to eat. They also eat plants. They are unusual monkeys in that they have only four fingers and no thumb. Spider monkeys are heavily hunted and are in danger of becoming extinct.
Why the Sky is Far Away?
Ramon looked at the food on his tray and made a face. "Macaroni and cheese again," he said to his friend Brian. "They never serve anything good for lunch."
Brian gave his own lunch a critical look and frowned. "You think that’s bad," he said, "I’ve got peanut butter and jelly again. It’s the third time this week!"
They pushed the food aside. "We can get something at the burger place after school," Ramon said. They concentrated on studying for their English test instead of eating. English was next period, and Mr. Friedman had a reputation for giving difficult tests. When the bell rang, they dropped their uneaten lunches into the garbage. Mr. Friedman was standing nearby. "Not hungry, guys?" he asked. They shook their heads and hurried off to class.
When the test was over, there were still ten minutes left in the period. Mr. Friedman stood at the front of the class.
"Before you leave today," he said, leaning against the desk, "I’d like to share an old African folktale with you. I think you’ll find this one interesting. It’s called ‘Why the Sky Is Far Away’":
Long ago the sky was close to the Earth. Men and women did not have to plant their own food. Instead, when they were hungry, they just reached up and broke off a piece of the sky to eat. Sometimes the sky tasted like ripe bananas. Other times it tasted like roasted potatoes. The sky was always delicious.
People spent their time making beautiful cloth. They painted beautiful pictures and sang songs at night. The grand king, Oba, had a wonderful palace. His servants made beautiful shapes out of pieces of sky.
Many people in the kingdom did not use the gift of the sky wisely. When they took more than they could eat, the sky became angry. Some people threw the extra pieces into the garbage.
Early one morning the angry sky turned dark. Black clouds hung over the land, and a great sky voice said to all the people, "You are wasting my gift of food. Do not take more than you can eat. I don’t want to see pieces of me in the garbage anymore or I will take my gift away."
The king and the people trembled with fear. King Oba said, "Let’s be careful about how much food we take." For a long time, all the people were careful.
But one man named Adami wasn’t careful. At festival time, he took so many delicious pieces of sky that he couldn’t eat them all. He knew he must not throw them away.
He tried to give the pieces to his wife. "Here, wife," Adami said. "You eat the rest."
"I can’t," Adami’s wife said. "I’m too full."
Adami asked all his children to help him eat the delicious pieces of sky, but the children couldn’t eat one more bite. So Adami decided to try to hide the pieces at the bottom of the garbage pile.
Suddenly, the sky became angry and the clouds turned black. "You have wasted my gift of food again," yelled the sky. "This time I will go away so you cannot waste me anymore."
All of the people cried, "What will we eat? We might starve!"
The sky said, "You will have to learn how to plant crops in the ground and hunt in the forests. If you work hard, you may learn not to waste the gifts of nature."
Everyone watched as the sky sailed away. From that time on, they worked hard to grow their food and cook their meals. They always tried to remember not to waste the gifts of nature.
The bell rang for the next period. "That’s the end," Mr. Friedman said, smiling. He looked at Ramon and Brian.
"What did you think of the story?" he asked. They slouched in their chairs and looked apologetic.
"We get the message," they said, smiling. "No more lunches in the garbage!"
New York
New York is the largest city in the United States. More than eight million people live in the Big Apple. New York City is also home of the United Nations. New York city is located in the state of New York. New York City is home to two hundred and fifty museums, four hundred art galleries, and the world famous Broadway for entertainment.
New York City is the business capital of the world and many national and international corporations have their headquarters in New York City. Wall Street, the world's leading center of finance and the home of the American Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange.
As far as professional sports go, this city has two of everything. Two professional baseball, basketball, hockey, and football teams are located in the city.
FLU
As you are no doubt aware, the flu can strike rapidly and extensively during winter. It can leave its victims ill for weeks.
The best way to fight the virus is to have a fit and healthy body. Daily exercise and a diet including plenty of fruit and vegetables are highly recommended to assist the immune system to fight this invading virus.
ACOL has decided to offer staff the opportunity to be immunized against the flu as an additional way to prevent this insidious virus from spreading amongst us. ACOL has arranged for a nurse to administer the immunizations at ACOL, during a half-day session in work hours in the week of May 17. This program is free and available to all members of staff.
Participation is voluntary. Staff taking up the option will be asked to sign a consent form indicating that they do not have any allergies, and that they understand they may experience minor side effects.
Medical advice indicates that the immunization does not produce influenza. However, it may cause some side effects such as fatigue, mild fever and tenderness of the arm.
WHO SHOULD BE IMMUNIZED?
Anyone interested in being protected against the virus.
This immunization is especially recommended for people over the age of 65. But regardless of age, ANYONE who has a chronic debilitating disease, especially cardiac, pulmonary, bronchial or diabetic conditions.
In an office environment ALL staff are at risk of catching the flu.
WHO SHOULD NOT BE IMMUNIZED?
Individuals hypersensitive to eggs, people suffering from an acute feverish illness and pregnant women.
Check with your doctor if you are taking any medication or have had a previous reaction to a flu injection.
If you would like to be immunized in the week of May 17 please advise the personnel officer, Fiona McSweeney, by Friday May 7. The date and time will be set according to the availability of the nurse, the number of participants and the time convenient for most staff. If you would like to be immunized for this winter but cannot attend at the arranged time please let Fiona know. An alternative session may be arranged if there are sufficient numbers.
Julie's Race
The dogsled race was about to begin. Julie’s team of dogs was lined up at the starting gate. Julie stood behind them. The air was so cold that she could see her breath. Other teams were lined up, too, and the dogs were excited. Julie kept her eyes on the clock. At exactly ten o’clock, she and the other racers yelled, "Mush!" The dogs knew that meant "Go!" They leapt forward and the race began!
Julie had trained months for this race, and she hoped she and her dogs would win. Hour after hour, day after day, Julie’s dogs pulled the sled in order to get in shape for the race.
Now, they ran over snowy hills and down into frozen valleys. They stopped only to rest and eat. They wanted to stay ahead of the other teams. The racers had to go a thousand miles across Alaska. Alaska is one of the coldest places on Earth. The dogs’ thick fur coats helped keep them warm in the cold wind and weather. In many places along the route, the snow was deep. Pieces of ice were as sharp as a knife. The ice could cut the dogs’ feet. To keep that from happening, Julie had put special booties on their feet.
At first, the dogs seemed to pull the sled very slowly. They were still getting used to the race. But on the third day out, they began to pull more quickly. They worked as a team and passed many of the other racers. Once, one of the sled’s runners slid into a hole and broke. Julie could have given up then, but she didn't. She fixed it and they kept going.
When they finally reached the finish line, they found out that they had come in first place! It was a great day for Julie and her dogs.
Light: What Causes a Rainbow
Light is a form of energy that we can see. Light moves in a
wavy beam from a source to whatever object it meets. A light beam is wavy, but it only moves in one direction as it travels through the air. It cannot bend, turn corners, or go in a circle. It travels in one direction until it hits an object. Not even the strongest wind can cause a light beam to bend.
Light cannot pass through a solid object. However, light can pass through transparent objects, such as crystal and water. When a light beam hits a transparent object, it keeps going forward, but it slows down. If you look at the place where an object is partly in and partly out of water, it looks like the object bends at the place where it enters the water. This is called “refraction.”
Sometimes a beam of light from the sun passes through a cloud made up of tiny droplets of water too small to fall as rain. Hitting the water droplets causes the light beam to slow down. If the light beam hits the droplets of just the right size at just the right angle, the light beam appears to split into layers. We see the color beams within the light beam one at a time, in layers. We see layers of red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and violet. We see a rainbow!
Please Wait
Today was the first day of school, and my friend Jody had a new haircut. It looked so cool. When I got home, I asked my mom for a haircut, and I told her exactly how I wanted it. I asked her, very politely, if she could do it today? Sadly, she was busy. She told me that it takes a long time to cut hair. “First, you have to take a bath so that your hair is wet. Then, you have to brush it out really well,” she said. My face dropped as my mom continued. “Finally, when you cut, you have to use special scissors, and cut very gently so that everything is even,” her voice trailed off.
“You need to be very careful and get it just right. If you make a mistake, you can’t glue the hair back on,” she said, laughing. I didn’t think it was very funny.
“Maybe I can cut it for you on the weekend,” she told me.
I went back to my room and looked at my hair in the mirror. It was way too long, and I didn’t want to go back to school looking like this.
I thought about what Mom had told me. She said to take a bath first, but I already took one this morning. Then she said to brush my hair, so I gave it a quick brush. Mom had said to use special scissors. I got my school scissors out of my desk. If they could cut paper they could cut hair!
I looked in the mirror again and paused. Mom’s comment that “you can’t glue it back on again” made me worry a little. I decided to cut just a little hair off.
Snip. Snip. Snip. I watched some hair float to the floor. I looked in the mirror, and one side was shorter than the other.
Snip. Snip. Snip. I looked again, but now the other side was shorter!
Snip. Snip. Snip. It was still wrong.
Snip. Snip. Snip. I kept trying to fix things, but the more I cut the more lopsided and crooked my hair became. I started to cry. Mom walked in. She looked at my new haircut. She shook her head and didn’t say anything. I don’t like it when she doesn’t say anything.
“Are you mad because it's ugly?” I asked.
“No, I’m disappointed because you were not patient. I am disappointed that you did not wait for me,” she replied.
I went into the bathroom and took a bath. My mom brushed my hair out, and clipped gently with her special scissors. It wasn’t perfect, but it was much better. My mom smiled as she combed my hair one last time.
“All good things come to those who wait,” she said.
Playground

Molly and her friend Bella were playing at the playground. They were supposed to be taking turns on the swing. Molly counted to 100 while Bella was on the swing. Bella didn’t get off the swing.
“Bella! I counted to 100, it’s my turn!” said Molly. “You counted too fast, it’s still my turn,” Bella said.
Molly was upset. She wanted a turn on the swing, too! What could she do? Molly could tell the teacher, but her teacher always wanted them to try to solve the problem first. What could she try?
She decided to try using an “I message”. That means to tell the other person how you’re feeling, why you feel that way, and what they can please do to make it better.
“Bella, I feel sad because we were supposed to take turns after 100 seconds. Will you please get off?” Molly asked. Finally, Bella go off the swing. Molly was happy because she solved her problem all by herself!
Alex and Grandpa Play Checkers
Alex likes to play checkers with his grandpa. While they are playing, his grandpa tells stories. When Grandpa was a boy, he lived on a ranch. He rode horses, and herded the cows. He once won a first place medal in a rodeo. Grandpa almost always wins the checker games. But Alex always hears a good story.
Purple is Mack’s favorite color. Mack uses his purple marker to draw purple cows under purple trees. He draws purple people playing with purple puppies. He thinks his purple pictures look funny. One day, Mack’s purple marker went dry. He looked at his other markers. Then he went and got his purple crayon. None of the other colors were quite as funny as purple.
Famous Amos Cookies
Wallace (Wally) Amos was born in Florida in 1937. In the 1970s, Wally founded the Famous Amos Chocolate Chip Cookie Corporation. His company did very well. People liked the chocolate chip cookies and people liked how excited Wally was about the cookies he was selling.
When Wally was little, his family was very poor. He did not have bus money so he walked 4 miles to school every day. He walked 4 miles back home every day. After his parents got divorced, Amos went to live with his Aunt Della in New York City. His aunt loved to cook and she always made him special chocolate chip cookies.
Wally dropped out of high school to join the army and he earned his high school degree while serving in the army. After he completed his work in the army, he attended secretarial school to learn shorthand, typing, and accounting skills. He worked in the stockroom stocking the shelves of a department store in New York and later in a mailroom in a company. Another job Wally had was to help a famous musician try to get music jobs.
Wally began baking chocolate chip cookies using a recipe similar to his aunt’s recipe. He borrowed money from his friends and opened a small shop in California. The Famous Amos Cookie Company started. Soon he began to make money. Within the first two years that the company store was open, he was baking six tons of cookies a week and taking in over $4,000,000 in sales each year.
He sold his company to the Bass Brothers of Fort Worth, Texas, and his cookies were soon found in grocery stores and vending machines all across the United States.
In 1992, Wally started a new cookie company called The Uncle Noname Cookie Company that made five different kinds of cookies. Each bag of cookies also had a recipe for lemonade on the bag.
He added this recipe to the cookie bag because Wally wanted his customers to know that, “...if life hands them a lemon, they can turn it into lemonade”. This expression means that if things happen that seem not to be so good at the time that later these things can actually turn into something good. Then Wally Amos rejoined the first cookie company to work on sales. He wanted the Famous Amos Cookie Company to return to the market. He also wanted this company to sell some new flavors of cookies besides the popular chocolate chip cookie, to add graphics to the packaging, and to work on new national advertising to attract more customers.
Wally has spent time as a literacy volunteer of America and he has given money to a special program called “Cities in Schools” which helps students stay in school.
Wally Amos is best known for his enjoyment in making cookies and for making so many possibilities out of his life.
Today was a special day in Ms. Smith’s class. Some of the children were walking around the room, some of them were standing in small groups, and some of them were at their desks, putting finishing touches on cardboard mailboxes. After coloring a cool flame on the side of his racecar mailbox, Johnny hopped off of his chair, strutted over to Veronica’s desk, and dropped a small white envelope into her princess castle mailbox. Veronica blushed and played with her hair. While this was happening, Bartleby was frantically trying to put a small white envelope into everyone’s mailbox. After giving one to Ms. Smith, Bartleby pulled out a medium-sized red envelope from his pocket. He blushed and tried to put it in Veronica’s mailbox, but it wouldn’t quite fit. Bartleby struggled with it for a few seconds and then ran off with the envelope. Veronica rolled her eyes and popped her gum.
Corman hit the garage door button. There was no response. This frustrated Corman, who hit the button several more times in a fit of rage. Still, there was no response. Kathy said, "Let me try, Corman." Kathy believed that Corman was a clumsy oaf and that he was hitting the button incorrectly. She tested her suspicions by hitting the button gently. The opener whirred and pulled up the garage door. Corman felt embarrassed. Kathy was happy that they would be able to leave the garage now.
Diego looked over the edge. He thought about how far the ground was. The wind gusted. Whitney turned to him and said, "It's beautiful up here, huh?" Diego could not think about beauty. All he could think about was not falling off the edge. He said, "Yeah, Whitney, it really is beautiful. Hey, how long do you want to stay up here?" Whitney laughed and said, "Let's stay up here the rest of our lives!" Diego grimaced. He was afraid that this scenario was all too likely.
"William, don't forget your towel!" Mom shouted as she applied sunblock on the baby. William threw the folding chairs in the back of the minivan and shouted through the garage door, "OK Mom!" He then ran up and grabbed his towel. "Georgie!" William shouted. There was no response. Mom packed the baby up into the car seat. "William, can you help me with his umbrella?" William ran down the stairs, almost tripping over a chew toy, and then he helped his mother load the large umbrella in the minivan. "Mom, I can't find Georgie," William said. His mother shrugged and replied, "That's OK, William. He probably shouldn't come with us anyway."
As young Americans mature into adults, they are tempted by the allure of easy credit. Credit card companies attempt to ensnare young people by giving away "free" headphones or sports towels in return for completing credit applications. Many of these young people go on to accumulate debt through undisciplined spending. They pay much more than the original loan because they are charged a high rate of interest and it takes them years to repay their debts. It is best to avoid this debt prison altogether.
One of the most intriguing stories of the Russian Revolution concerns the identity of Anastasia, the youngest daughter of Czar Nicholas II. During his reign over Russia, the czar had planned to revoke many of the harsh laws established by previous czars. Some workers and peasants, however, clamored for more rapid social reform. In 1918, a group of these people known as Bolsheviks overthrew the government. On July 17 or 18, they murdered the czar and what was thought to be his entire family.

Although witnesses vouched that all the members of the czar’s family had been executed, there were rumors suggesting that Anastasia had survived. Over the years, a number of women claimed to be Grand Duchess Anastasia. Perhaps the most famous claimant was Anastasia Tschaikovsky, who was also known as Anna Anderson.

In 1920, 18 months after the czar’s execution, this terrified young woman was rescued from drowning in a Berlin river. She spent two years in a hospital, where she attempted to reclaim her health and shattered mind. The doctors and nurses thought that she resembled Anastasia and questioned her about her background. She disclaimed any connection with the czar’s family. Eight years later, however, she claimed that she was Anastasia. She said that she had been rescued by two Russian soldiers after the czar and the rest of her family had been killed. Two brothers named Tschaikovsky had carried her into Romania. She had married one of the brothers, who had taken her to Berlin and left her there, penniless and without a vocation. Unable to invoke the aid of her mother’s family in Germany, she had tried to drown herself.

During the next few years, scores of the czar’s relatives, ex-servants, and acquaintances interviewed her. Many of these people said that her looks and mannerisms were evocative of the Anastasia that they had known. Her grandmother and other relatives denied that she was the real Anastasia, however.

Tired of being accused of fraud, Anastasia immigrated to the United States in 1928 and took the name Anna Anderson. She still wished to prove that she was Anastasia, though, and returned to Germany in 1933 to bring suit against her mother’s family. There she declaimed to the court, asserting that she was indeed Anastasia and deserved her inheritance.

In 1957, the court decided that it could neither confirm nor deny Anastasia’s identity. Although it will probably never be known whether this woman was the Grand Duchess Anastasia, her search to establish her identity has been the subject of numerous books, plays, and movies.
The Trojan War is one of the most famous wars in history. It is well known for the 10-year duration, for the heroism of a number of legendary characters, and for the Trojan horse. What may not be familiar, however, is the story of how the war began.

According to Greek myth, the strife between the Trojans and the Greeks started at the wedding of Peleus, King of Thessaly, and Thetis, a sea nymph. All of the gods and goddesses had been invited to the wedding celebration in Troy except Eris, goddess of discord. She had been omitted from the guest list because her presence always embroiled mortals and immortals alike in conflict.

To take revenge on those who had slighted her, Eris decided to cause a skirmish. Into the middle of the banquet hall, she threw a golden apple marked “for the most beautiful.” All of the goddesses began to haggle over who should possess it. The gods and goddesses reached a stalemate when the choice was narrowed to Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite. Someone was needed to settle the controversy by picking a winner. The job eventually fell to Paris, son of King Priam of Troy, who was said to be a good judge of beauty. Paris did not have an easy job. Each goddess, eager to win the golden apple, tried aggressively to bribe him.

“I’ll grant you vast kingdoms to rule,” promised Hera. “Vast kingdoms are nothing in comparison with my gift,” contradicted Athena. “Choose me and I’ll see that you win victory and fame in war.” Aphrodite outdid her adversaries, however. She won the golden apple by offering Helen, daughter of Zeus and the most beautiful mortal in the land, to Paris. Paris, anxious to claim Helen, set off for Sparta in Greece.

Although Paris learned that Helen was married, he nevertheless accepted the hospitality of her husband, King Menelaus of Sparta. Therefore, Menelaus was outraged for a number of reasons when Paris departed, taking Helen and much of the king’s wealth back to Troy. Menelaus collected his loyal forces and set sail for Troy to begin the war to reclaim Helen.
Sir Isaac Newton was contemplating the universe in his garden one day in 1665 when he noticed an apple fall from a tree. Newton wondered to himself, “Why should the apple always fall to the ground? Why does it not go sideways or upwards but directly toward the Earth’s center?” After much contemplation Newton concluded that objects are pulled to the Earth through a force that he called gravity, which means heaviness in Latin. On July 5 , 1687 Newton formally expressed his law of universal gravitation in series of books called The Principia.
We stared at the Bubblegum Fortress from the mouth of the Cotton Candy Woods. The gumdrop soldiers were scurrying atop their sugar coated ramparts. I wouldn't be surprised if someone had tipped them off. Chet Eagle approached me and said, "What now, Commander Candy?" I thought about it for a second. "Well, they get better prepared with each passing second, so let's attack now." Chet Eagle bowed and said, "As you wish, Commander Candy."
As the teacher brought the class back from the washroom, he noticed that Alvin and Elijah were nowhere to be seen. He asked the class, "Has anyone seen Alvin or Elijah?" Most of the students confirmed that they had not seen them, except for Rodney, who remained silent while tapping his foot on the floor anxiously. The teacher noticed this. "Rodney, do you happen to know where your best buddies Alvin and Elijah went?" Rodney looked away and said, "Nah, I haven't seen them." The teacher notified the office of the missing students. An announcement was made over the PA system and a few minutes later, Alvin and Elijah returned to class. Both of them were very sweaty and Elijah was carrying a basketball. "Sorry we took so long. We had to use the bathroom," said Elijah. "Yeah," chimed in Alvin, "it took longer than we thought."
Kyle ran into his house, slamming the door behind him. He threw his book bag on the floor and plopped onto the couch. After six hours of playing Grand Larceny VII, he ate some pizza and fell asleep with a slice on his stomach and his feet on his book bag. When Kyle came home from school the next day, he was noticeably distraught. He balled up his report card and placed it inside a soup can in the garbage. He then flipped the soup can upside down in the garbage can and arranged loose pieces of trash over it. As he plopped down on the couch, he let out a sigh and picked up his controller.
Andy walked into the antique shop and began looking at the pieces. He picked up a bronze vase and scowled at it before putting it down. He sat in a red wooden rocking chair and gave it a few rocks. Then he got up and stretched his back. He walked over to a rack of knickknacks and picked up a tiny porcelain clown. His face lit up. "How much is this one?" he asked the storeowner. "The clown's a sawbuck," replied the storeowner gruffly. Andy took ten dollars from his wallet and laid it on the counter.
Musical Instruments to Play
A musical instrument is a device created to make musical sounds. Anything that makes a sound can be used as a musical instrument.
The history of musical instruments goes back to the beginning of culture. People first used instruments as ritual: a hunter might use a trumpet to signal a successful hunt; a drum might be used in a religious ceremony.
Cultures later composed and performed a set of sounds called a melody for entertainment. Musical instruments were needed. Some historians report that the earliest musical instrument was a simple flute. Many of the earliest musical instruments were made from animal skins, bone, wood, and other non-durable materials.
Musical instruments were developed separately in the different countries and regions of the world, but when civilizations shared information amongst themselves, the development of instruments spread. For example, cultures of North America, South America, and Central America used similar instruments and shared these ideas of making instruments that were alike in some way.
Many different ways have been used to classify instruments over the years. One way to classify instruments is to put them in groups by the range of music the instruments can play. Another classification is to put them together by what they are made out of. However, the most common method of grouping instruments is by how they produce sounds. The academic study of musical instruments is called organology.
Woodwinds and brass (sometimes called the “wind” instruments), string, percussion, electric, and keyboard are types of instruments grouped according to how they are made and the range of music and sounds they play.
Woodwind and brass instruments include the trumpet, clarinet, flute, oboe, trombone, tuba, and harmonica. Stringed instruments include the banjo, guitar, harp, violin, and viola. Percussion instruments include the cymbal, chime, timpani, drum, and tambourine. Electronic instruments are the keyboard and the synthesizer. Keyboard instruments include the accordion, organ, and piano.
Maybe you will play an instrument someday. Will it be a woodwind or brass, stringed, percussion, electronic or a keyboard instrument?
Robert is sure that his blue shirt is lucky. He wore his blue shirt on the day of the spelling bee, and he won. He was wearing his lucky shirt when his family went to the beach, and he found a lot of seashells. Robert’s mom says it is silly to believe that a shirt can be lucky, but Robert is still sure that it is.
Alice’s Cartoon Art Book
Alice’s aunt Lucy gave her a book that shows how to draw cartoons. It shows, step-by-step, how to draw a cartoon person, a cartoon cat, a cartoon mouse, and other animals. Most cartoon drawings start with circles. First you sketch lightly, until you like the way the drawing looks. Then you draw the lines in darker. Now Alice likes drawing cartoons even more than she likes coloring.
Sharks

What has fins, sharp teeth, and swims in the ocean? A shark!
Sharks have been around for a very long time. Sharks have lived in the oceans even before dinosaurs roamed the earth! Sharks are fish, and there are over 400 types of sharks. When they have babies, the babies are called pups.
Sharks lose their teeth, like humans, but they don’t just lose their baby teeth. They lose teeth throughout their lives. When a shark loses a tooth, a tooth from another row of teeth will move into its place. New teeth are always growing. Most sharks are carnivores, so they feed on other animals, like fish or seals.
Sharks might look scary, but they are not usually dangerous to people. People are more dangerous to sharks, since people hunt sharks. To be safe, though, it is a good idea to leave sharks alone if you see them!
Ernest and the Elevator
Liam has a dog named Ernest. He is a very good dog.
Ernest rarely barks. He never bites. He’s very well behaved, except that he loves chewing Liam’s shoes.
Every day after school, Liam takes Ernest for a walk.
“Time for a walk, Ernest,” Liam calls. Ernest wags his tail and runs over to Liam. Liam clips Ernest’s leash to his collar.
Liam and Ernest live in an apartment building. Ernest does not like to ride in the elevator. Every day, Liam tries to get Ernest to go into the elevator. And every day, Ernest refuses to go inside.
Ernest whines, cries and pulls on the leash. He’s too scared to ride the elevator.
Most of the time, Liam and Ernest take the stairs. Not today! Today, Liam decides to help Ernest conquer his fear.
First, Liam tries to lure Ernest into the elevator with his favorite dog toy. He
takes Ernest’s stuffed monkey out of his doggie bed and puts it on the elevator floor.
“Come on, Ernest!” he exclaims, holding the elevator door open. “Come get your toy.”
Ernest looks at the stuffed monkey. He looks at the elevator. Then he lies down and makes a soft whining noise. He won’t get in the elevator.
Liam has another idea. He finds some salami in the fridge and puts it on the floor of the elevator. “Come get the salami, Ernest,” he says.
Ernest looks at the salami. He looks at the elevator. He inches a little bit forward, then stops. Ernest still won’t get in the elevator.
Liam is about to give up. Will nothing help Ernest overcome his fear?
Then, Liam has another idea. He takes off one of his shoes and tosses it in the elevator.
“Ernest, go get the shoe!” Before Liam can even finish his sentence, Ernest has jumped in the elevator. He starts chewing Liam’s shoe. They get to the bottom floor. Ernest was so brave! Ernest won’t let go of the shoe, but Liam doesn’t mind. He takes Ernest for a walk in one shoe and one sock.
Terrence Learns About the Color Wheel
After dinner, Terrence got back to experimenting with his new watercolor set. He liked to mix colors together to see what new color he would get. His drawings were looking much cooler now that he could paint them too.
Terrence was also writing down which color mixes were best. He noticed that when he mixed yellow and blue, he got green. When he mixed yellow and red, he got orange, and when he mixed red and blue, he got purple. A lot of colors that he mixed just came out brown.
Terrence was just making another note about color mixes when his dad came in. His dad looked at Terrence’s notes. “Well I’ll be darned!” his dad said. “I’ll be right back.”
Terrence heard his dad’s computer go on. Then he heard the printer printing.
“Look at this,” his dad said. “You’ve re-invented the color wheel!”
“What do you mean?” Terrence asked, looking at the picture his dad had printed from the computer.
There were three large circles in a triangle. One was red, one was yellow, and one was blue. There were three smaller circles in between each of the two large circles. Between the yellow and blue circles was a smaller green circle. Between the yellow and red circles was a smaller orange circle. Between the red and blue circles was a smaller purple circle. The six small and large circles formed a larger circular shape, or a wheel shape. At the top of the page was the title: “The Color Wheel.”
“It looks the same!” Terrence’s dad said. “Let’s go get some ice cream to celebrate.”
Macondo
Dazzled by so many and such marvellous inventions, the people of Macondo did not know where their amazement began. They stayed up all night looking at the pale electric bulbs fed by the plant that Aureliano Triste had brought back when the train made its second trip, and it took time and effort for them to grow accustomed to its obsessive toom-toom. They became indignant over the living images that the prosperous merchant Don Bruno Crespi projected in the theatre with the lion-head ticket windows, for a character who had died and was buried in one film, and for whose misfortune tears of affliction had been shed, would reappear alive and transformed into an Arab in the next one. The audience, who paid two centavos apiece to share the difficulties of the actors, would not tolerate that outlandish fraud and they broke up the seats. The mayor, at the urging of Don Bruno Crespi, explained by means of a proclamation that the cinema was a machine of illusions that did not merit the emotional outburst of the audience. With that discouraging explanation many felt that they had been the victims of some new and showy gypsy business and they decided not to return to the movies, considering that they already had too many troubles of their own to weep over the acted-out misfortunes of imaginary beings.
Outer Space

From far out in space, Earth looks like a blue ball. Since water covers three-fourths of the Earth’s surface, blue is the color we see most. The continents look brown, like small islands floating in the huge, blue sea. White clouds wrap around the Earth like a light blanket. The Earth is shaped like a sphere, or a ball. It is 25,000 miles around! It would take more than a year to walk around the whole planet. A spaceship can fly around the widest part of the sphere in only 90 minutes.

Even though spaceships have traveled to the Moon, people cannot visit the Moon without special suits. The Moon has no air or water. Plants and animals can’t live there either. Astronauts first landed on the Moon in 1969. After that, there were six more trips to the Moon. They brought back Moon rocks, which scientists are still studying. There are holes, or craters, all over the Moon’s surface. Scientists believe that meteorites smashed into the Moon millions of years ago and formed the craters.

The Sun is the closest star to Earth. A star is a hot ball of burning gas. The Sun looks very big because it is so close. But the Sun is just a medium-sized star. Billions of far-away stars are much bigger than our Sun. The burning gases from the Sun are so hot that they warm the Earth from 93 million miles away! Even though the Sun is always glowing, the night here on Earth is dark. That’s because the Earth rotates, or turns around, every 24 hours. During the day, the Earth faces the Sun. Then we see light. During the night, the Earth turns away from the Sun. Then it faces the darkness of space.

Each day we learn more about the Earth, the Moon, and the Sun.
Popular Sports Around the World
For centuries, people have been playing kicking games with a ball. The game of soccer developed from some of these early games. The English probably gave soccer its name and its first set of rules. In European countries, soccer is called football or association football. Some people believe that the name "soccer" came from "assoc.," an abbreviation for the word association. Others believe that the name came from the high socks that the players wear.

Organized soccer games began in 1863. In soccer, two teams of eleven players try to kick or head the ball into their opponents’ goal. The goalie, who tries to keep the ball out of the goal, is the only player on the field who is allowed to touch the ball with his or her hands. The other players must use their feet, heads, and bodies to control the ball.

Every four years, soccer teams around the world compete for the World Cup. The World Cup competition started in 1930.

Brazil is the home of many great soccer players, including the most famous player of all, Pelé. With his fast footwork, dazzling speed, and great scoring ability, Pelé played for many years in Brazil and then later in New York. During his 22 years in soccer, he scored 1,281 goals and held every major record for the sport.

People in more than 140 countries around the world play soccer. It is the national sport of most European and Latin American countries. Soccer is definitely the world’s most popular sport!

James Naismith, a physical education teacher in Massachusetts, invented basketball in 1891. Naismith’s boss asked him to invent a game that students could play indoors during bad weather. He wanted to find a game that wasn’t as physically rough as soccer, football, or wrestling.

Naismith attached peach baskets to a railing ten feet above the floor at either end of the gym. The players used a soccer ball.

A person sat on a ladder next to each basket at either end of the gym, and threw out the balls that landed in the baskets. Naismith decided that having only five players on each team would keep the game from getting too rough.

Two years later, metal hoops with net bags replaced the peach baskets. Officials pulled a string on the nets to release the balls that went in. In 1894, Naismith added the backboard behind each net and changed to a larger ball. In 1913, people began using the bottomless nets that are used today.

During a basketball game, two teams of five players each throw the ball into two baskets at opposite ends of a court. Players bounce, or dribble, the ball to the basket or pass the ball to teammates. A team scores points by getting the ball into their team’s basket. The team with the highest score wins.

By the 1900s, basketball was the most popular indoor sport. Athletes in approximately 130 countries play the game. Basketball is especially popular in the United States, China, and Puerto Rico.

Baseball began in the United States in the early 1800s. Some people believe that Abner Doubleday invented the game. Others think that baseball came from an old British sport called rounders. Baseball and rounders are very similar. However, in rounders the field players throw the ball right at the runner. If the ball hits the runner, he or she is out. In baseball, a field player just touches the ball to the base or the running player to get the player out.

Today’s baseball players use special equipment to help prevent injuries. Field players wear baseball gloves to protect their hands. The catcher wears a metal mask, a chest protector, and shin guards. Batters wear plastic helmets to protect their heads.

Every spring in the United States, people of all ages play baseball at local baseball fields. It’s no wonder that baseball is called the national pastime of the United States.
Sydney
Just over four million people call Sydney, Australia home. Citizens of Sydney call
themselves Sydneysiders. Over thirty thousand native people of Australia
called Aborigines live in Sydney. In the late 1700s Britain sent ships of convicted
prisoners to Sydney to help free up space in overcrowded jails. When released, many
prisoners stayed in Sydney adding to the city's diverse population.
The British colonization of Australia also consisted of free settlers, soldiers, and administrative staff.
The Sydney Opera House is the centerpiece of the city. Many live performances of ballet, opera, and classical music take place there. The beautiful architecture seen in the Opera House has helped it gain international fame.
Because Sydney is found in the Southern Hemisphere, its seasonal pattern is opposite the Northern Hemisphere. Sydney's coldest month of the year is July. Snow is extremely rare in the city, but it does happen occasionally.
Amazing Black Holes
How many things can you see in the night sky? A lot! On a clear night you might see the Moon, some planets, and thousands of sparkling stars.
 
You can see even more with a telescope. You might see stars where before you only saw dark space. You might see that many stars look larger than others. You might see that some stars that look white are really red or blue. With bigger and bigger telescopes you can see more and more objects in the sky. And you can see those objects in more and more detail.
 
But scientists believe there are some things in the sky that we will never see. We won't see them with the biggest telescope in the world, on the clearest night of the year.
 
That's because they're invisible. They're the mysterious dead stars called black holes.
 
You might find it hard to imagine that stars die. After all, our Sun is a star. Year after year we see it up in the sky, burning brightly, giving us heat and light. The Sun certainly doesn't seem to be getting old or weak. But stars do burn out and die after billions of years.
 
As a star's gases burn, they give off light and heat. But when the gas runs out, the star stops burning and begins to die.
 
As the star cools, the outer layers of the star pull in toward the center. The star squashes into a smaller and smaller ball. If the star was very small, the star ends up as a cold, dark ball called a black dwarf. If the star was very big, it keeps squashing inward until it's packed together tighter than anything in the universe.
 
Imagine if the Earth were crushed until it was the size of a tiny marble. That's how tightly this dead star, a black hole, is packed. What pulls the star in toward its center with such power? It's the same force that pulls you down when you jump — the force called gravity. A black hole is so tightly packed that its gravity sucks in everything — even light. The light from a black hole can never come back to your eyes. That's why you see nothing but blackness.
 
So the next time you stare up at the night sky, remember: there's more in the sky than meets the eye! Scattered in the silent darkness are black holes — the great mystery of space.
PARENTS LACKING AWARENESS OF BULLYING 
Only one in three parents polled is aware of bullying involving their children, according to an Education Ministry survey released on Wednesday. 
The survey, conducted between December 1994 and January 1995, involved some 19,000 parents, teachers and children at primary, junior and senior high schools where bullying has occurred. 
The survey, the first of its kind conducted by the Ministry, covered students from the fourth grade up. According to the survey, 22 per cent of the primary school children polled said they face bullying, compared with 13 per cent of junior high school children and 4 per cent of senior high school students. 
On the other hand, some 26 per cent of the primary school children said they have bullied, with the percentage decreasing to 20 per cent for junior high school children and 6 per cent for senior high school students. 
Of those who replied that they have been bullies, between 39 and 65 per cent said they also have been bullied. 
The survey indicated that 37 per cent of the parents of bullied primary school children were aware of bullying targeted at their children. The figure was 34 per cent for the parents of junior high school children and 18 per cent for those of the senior high school students. 
Of the parents aware of the bullying, 14 per cent to 18 per cent said they had been told of bullying by teachers. Only 3 per cent to 4 per cent of the parents learned of the bullying from their children, according to the survey. 
The survey also found that 42 per cent of primary school teachers are not aware of bullying aimed at their students. The portion of such teachers was 29 per cent at junior high schools and 69 per cent at senior high schools. 
Asked for the reason behind bullying, about 85 per cent of the teachers cited a lack of education at home. Many parents singled out a lack of a sense of justice and compassion among children as the main reason. 
An Education Ministry official said the findings suggest that parents and teachers should have closer contact with children to prevent bullying. 
School bullying became a major issue in Japan after 13-year-old Kiyoteru Okouchi hanged himself in Nishio, Aichi Prefecture, in the fall of 1994, leaving a note saying that classmates had repeatedly dunked him in a nearby river and extorted money from him. 
The bullying-suicide prompted the Education Ministry to issue a report on bullying in March 1995 urging teachers to order bullies not to come to school.
London
London is the largest city in Europe. It has held this title for over four hundred years. Over seven million people call London, the capital of the United Kingdom, home. One in ten people, who live in the United Kingdom, live in London. Three hundred fifty thousand people travel each day into London to work.
Due to London's location, it is a very dry all year. Although it is dry, London is often very cloudy. On average it rains mildly just about every other day.
More than a hundred of the world's major companies have their headquarters in London, making the city a major world influence. Most people from London work in a job that involves printing or publishing.
Ready for Anything
Justin was always prepared. His motto was "Never throw anything out, you never know when it might come in handy." His bedroom was so full of flat bicycle tires, bent tennis rackets, deflated basketballs, and games with missing pieces that you could barely get in the door. His parents pleaded with him to clean out his room.
"What use is a fish tank with a hole in the bottom?" his father asked. But Justin simply smiled and repeated his motto, "Never throw anything out, you never know when it might come in handy."
When Justin was away from home, he always carried his blue backpack. He liked to think of it as a smaller version of his bedroom—a place to store the many objects that he collected. It was so worn and stretched that it hardly resembled a backpack anymore. It was full of the kind of things that seemed unimportant, but when used with a little imagination, might come in handy.
Justin had earned a reputation for figuring things out and getting people out of otherwise hopeless situations. Many of his classmates and neighbors sought him out when they needed help with a problem. On the first day of school, his friend Kenny, came looking for Justin.
"Do you think you have something in your bag that could help me remember my locker combination?" he asked. "I lost the scrap of paper it was written on. I have science class in two minutes and if I’m late on the first day it’ll make me look bad for the rest of the year." Kenny looked genuinely worried.
"Relax," Justin said, taking his backpack off and unzipping the top. "Remember how you borrowed my notebook in homeroom to write the combination down? Well, I know how we can recover what you wrote."
He took the notebook and a soft lead pencil out of his bag. The page that Kenny had written on had left faint indentations on another page in the notebook. Justin held the pencil on its side and rubbed it lightly over the indentations. Slowly but surely the numbers of the locker combination appeared in white, set off by the gray pencil rubbings.
"That’s amazing!" Kenny said. "I owe you one." And he dashed off to open his locker.
During science class, Mr. Tran was lecturing on the structure of the solar system using a model. He made a sudden gesture and the model fell apart. Planets and rings and connector rods went everywhere, rolling and clattering and disappearing under desks. The students scrambled around on the floor for ten minutes and were finally able to recover every piece except one—a connector rod that was lodged in a crack between two lab stations.
"If we had a magnet," said Mr. Tran, "we could easily coax it out that way. But I loaned all of the magnet kits to the elementary school yesterday."
Justin was already searching through his backpack. "I have some materials that will work just as well, I think," he told Mr. Tran. He pulled out a battery, an iron nail, and some electrical wire and tape, while Mr. Tran and the other students looked on in amazement.
"Why do you have all of that stuff?" Louise Baxter asked. Justin just smiled and repeated his motto. "Never throw anything out, you never know when it might come in handy."
By wrapping the wire around the nail and taping each end to a battery terminal, he was able to make a magnet strong enough to lift the rod out of the crack.
"Bravo!" said Mr. Tran.
"No problem," said Justin.
After school, Justin rode the bus to the mall where he worked at a music store. His boss, Gail, was taking inventory of all of the CDs and tapes in the classical music section. As he helped a customer at the register, Justin heard her exclaim, "Oh, no! I forgot my glasses! There’s no way I can read this list without them." Justin sighed, picked up his backpack, and walked over to Gail.
"I think I can help you out," he said, unzipping the bag. While Gail watched in surprise, he pulled out a jar of petroleum jelly, a washer, a glass slide, and a small bottle of water. He put the jelly on the bottom of the washer, placed it securely, jelly-side down, on the glass slide, and then put a drop of water in the center of the washer.
He put the contraption on top of the inventory list and said to his boss, "See what happens when you look through the water droplet." Gail looked and her eyes widened with delight.
"Wow!" she cried. "It enlarges the print that I’m looking at, just like a magnifying glass!" She patted Justin on the back. "I’m all set now," she said. "Thanks."
Justin smiled. "No problem," he said, returning to the register.
It was just another day in the life of the boy whose motto was "Never throw anything out, you never know when it might come in handy."
How Does the Stock Exchange Work?

We hear the stock exchange on a daily basis. This number goes up and that number goes down, but what does it all mean? How do you make and lose money with the stock market? And why do people worry about those numbers anyway?
A stock exchange allows companies to offer a specific piece or share of their company to anyone for money. A share represents a small percentage of ownership within a company. The first company to issue shares of stock was the Dutch East India Company, in 1602. People that purchase the shares can in turn sell their shares to other people. The stock exchange is a physical or electronic place where buyers and sellers meet to trade these shares. There are many stock exchanges throughout the world.
The value of the shares increases and decreases as the company has success or difficulty. If a person buys a share in a company that has success in the future the value of that share increases. The price of the share can also be affected by the health of the financial or technical reports, and/or the success of other companies. As more people want to purchase a stock, the value of that stock increases. When you purchase a stock, you hope a continual wave of good news for that company.
The goal of shareholders is to buy a stock for a low price and sell it for higher price. Well established companies give their profits to shareholders in the form of a dividend. If a company has 10 shareholders and they make $1000 in a years' time, each shareholder will receive $100. The stock still retains its value on top of the dividend paid to shareholders.
To buy or sell a stock you would need to establish an investment account. This account is maintained by stockbrokers. Stockbrokers buy and sell stock for the clients they represent. Stockbrokers receive either a percentage of the sale or a flat rate per stock trade.
Did you know that there is a fiber that is as flexible and lightweight as nylon yet five times stronger than steel? Did you know that this fabric is resistant to temperatures higher than 500 degrees Fahrenheit? Did you know that a woman invented this fiber? This miraculous fabric is called Kevlar and it is used to make everything from body armor to musical instruments.
The year was 1964. There were gasoline shortages due to conflict in the Middle East. A Polish- American chemist named Stephanie Louise Kwolek was working for DuPont, an American chemical company. She and her group were trying to make a lightweight, yet durable fiber to be used in tires. Lighter tires would allow vehicles to get better gas mileage, but the tires had to be strong enough to resist the wear and tear of the road. They had been working on the problem for some time and had little success, until Kwolek had a breakthrough.
Kwolek and her group were synthesizing or creating fibers to test. During one of the steps in the process, Kwolek created a milky white solution by mixing two chemicals that were often used in the process. This solution was usually thrown away, but Kwolek convinced one of the technicians to help her test it. They were amazed to discover that the fabric that Kwolek had created was not only more durable than nylon, it was more durable than steel. Kwolek had invented Kevlar.
Kevlar is a remarkable fabric known for its strength and durability. Since its invention it has found its way into a wide variety of products. Kevlar is used in sporting equipment like bike tires, bowstrings, and tennis racquets. It is used in musical instruments like drum heads, reeds, and speaker cones. And it is used in protective gear like motorcycle safety jackets, gloves, and shoes. However, Kevlar is best known for its ability to stop bullets.
Richard Armellino created the first Kevlar bulletproof vest in 1975. It contained 15 layers of Kevlar, which could stop handgun and shotgun bullets. The vest also had a steel plate over the heart, which made the vest strong enough to stop rifle rounds. Vests like Armellino's were quickly picked up by police forces and it is estimated that by 1990, half of all police officers in America wore bulletproof vests daily. By 2006 there were over 2,000 documented police vest "saves," or instances where officers were protected from deadly wounds by wearing bulletproof vests.
Kevlar is an amazing fabric not only for its hardness and durability, but also for its heat resistance. Because of this it has been used to replace asbestos. Asbestos is a naturally occurring material that is known for its ability to resist fire. Asbestos can resist temperatures over 1000 degrees Fahrenheit. For this reason it was used in roofs, electrical cables, and brake pads, until people discovered that it causes cancer and other serious health problems. Kevlar poses no such risks. It is lightweight, flexible, and resistant to fire. Therefore, it has proven to be a good replacement for asbestos in many cases.
Since its invention in 1964, Kevlar has won its way into our lives. From musical instruments and brake pads to protective equipment and sporting gear, Kevlar is everywhere. Every day of your life you are exposed to something that was made better by Kevlar. Who'd have known?
Pen Pals

We are learning how to write friendly letters at school. I don’t mind writing practice letters, but it would be more fun to write a real letter to someone Just as I was thinking about it, our teacher, Mrs. Snow said that we really are going to write a letter to someone! We all started talking at once. Mrs. Snow asked us to quiet down again so that she could finish.
She said we are going to write to second graders in England to see what life is like in England. That sounds so cool! I couldn’t wait to get started. Mrs. Snow handed out the names of our pen pals, and asked us to use what we learned about friendly letters to write to our pen pal. My pen pal’s name was Oliver. The only things Mrs. Snow said we had to include in our letter were two questions:
1. Which holidays do you celebrate during the year?
2. What do you like to play?
We also had to answer those questions in our letters. She said we could add any other details about things we like to do, and what school is like here, if we wanted to.
It took a few weeks, but the day we got letters back from our pen pals was an exciting one! Oliver plays video games like we do over here. Their holidays are a lot of the same holidays we celebrate, like April Fool’s Day! Oliver told me about a prank he was going to play on his dad. One holiday they celebrate that I don’t is Boxing Day. It was interesting to see what is the same and what is different about living in different countries. I can’t wait to learn more about my new pen pal!
The Washing Machine Box

Sarah’s family’s washing machine stopped working, so her dad ordered a new one. It was going to be delivered on Saturday.
When Saturday came, Sarah and her friend Emily sat in the front yard waiting for the delivery. They were excited because they knew that they would get to play with the box. “Big boxes are so much fun,” said Sarah.
Emily agreed and said, “We can make the box into whatever we want.” “Here comes the delivery truck,” yelled Emily.
As soon as the washing machine was out of the box, Sarah and Emily took out some crayons and colored all over it. They turned it into a pink, red, blue and yellow clubhouse.
It was their clubhouse for a while, and then it was a fancy car. After that, they cut out a square on one side and made it into a TV. They acted out their favorite TV shows for the rest of Sarah’s family. It was a fun day for everyone.
The Camping Trip

Lily and her brother Ryan went camping with their mom and dad. Ryan and Dad set up the tent while Lily and Mom collected sticks to start a bonfire.
Once the tent was set up, they started a fire in the bonfire pit. Lily and Ryan looked for long pointy sticks to use for cooking hot dogs over the fire while the fire was heating up. They found four perfect sticks, one for each of them.
Lily and Ryan, and their mom and dad, each placed two hot dogs on their sticks. They held the hot dogs over the fire and turned the sticks slowly so every side of each hot dog was cooked. Then they put the hot dogs into buns and added ketchup and mustard. The hot dogs were delicious.
After they all enjoyed their hot dogs, Lily got out the marshmallows for dessert. They all roasted marshmallows over the fire until the marshmallows turned a nice shade of brown. Then they popped the yummy treats into their mouths.
Sitting around the bonfire and eating marshmallows is Lily and Ryan’s favorite part of camping.
The History of Chocolate
People from all over the world like the taste of chocolate. Chocolate is a refreshment that many people enjoy as a dessert or snack. Did you ever grab a chocolate bar at the store when you were checking out groceries with your mom or dad? Did you ever buy a chocolate bar at the gas station when your parents stopped to buy gas? Did you ever get to pick out a chocolate candy bar at a basketball game or a soccer game? Some people like dark chocolate and some people like light chocolate. Some people like plain chocolate and others like nuts or cream inside.
Maybe you have gone to a candy shop that made lots of different kinds of chocolate. Or you might have taken a trip out east and stopped at Hershey, Pennsylvania, where Milton Hershey first made chocolate for Hershey’s candy. The name “Hershey” is known throughout the world. Milton Hershey died in 1945, but the chocolate factory and Hershey’s chocolate continues to be made in Hersey, Pennsylvania.
Mrs. Hershey thought it would be a good idea for her son Milton to learn a business from someone who was a successful businessman. So when Milton finished fourth grade, she arranged for Milton to become a printer’s apprentice where he would learn about print, newspapers, and books.
However, Milton did not like this kind of work and soon he was serving as an apprentice under his father who got a new job in a candy factory where he helped to make candy.
After a few years, Milton knew that he was a good candy maker and he wanted to start his own candy business. He tried to build several businesses in many different cities, and he did not give up until his candy business was finally a success. He learned to make caramels and to expand the kinds of candy he made. When he was 29-years-old, he moved back to Pennsylvania to start a caramel business, and in four years his business was very successful. After seeing how chocolate was made at a chocolate convention, Milton purchased the equipment needed to make similar chocolates. He got married and sold the caramel company for $1,000,000 dollars and opened up a chocolate factory.
Hershey built an entire town complete with houses, schools, churches, and stores so the people who worked in his factory could live nearby. The Hershey Chocolate Company grew to make sweet chocolate and cocoa.
He focused his factory on the “nickel bar”, a chocolate bar that everyone could afford. He then added Hershey Kisses and Hershey’s with Almonds. As success and profits rose, he
expanded his town to add a sports arena, a stadium, and a school to learn how to make chocolate. The school was for orphaned children, and when his wife died, Milton took all of his money ($60 million dollars) and gave it to the school to help these children.
He also made a foundation which is an organization that gives money to people who need it. His foundation is designed to help people get an education.
Milton Hershey died in 1945, but the world remembers him for not only making chocolate bars, but for his work to help people through his foundation. A medical center for The Pennsylvania State University was also founded.
Milton Hershey is remembered as someone who built an entire city and helped people get jobs. He is remembered for someone who made a school for children who did not have families. He is someone who made a medical center to help those who are sick and someone who made that chocolate, that yummy chocolate that most of us throughout the world enjoy.
Sonja’s grandma is teaching her to knit. Grandma is showing Sonja how to loop the yarn over the needles in a certain way to make nice things. Sonja is making a winter scarf. She isn’t sure she will ever be good at knitting. But she likes spending time with her grandma.
Ned and Rover and Jack
A boy named Ned had a little puppy dog named Rover. One day, Ned’s papa gave him a nice new toy wagon. Ned was pulling it around the yard when he saw Rover. “Come, Rover,” he said, “I will give you a fun ride.” So he took Rover and put him in the wagon and gave him a ride.
But just then Ned saw his friend Tom. Tom was running down the street. Ned called to him, but he did not hear. Ned wanted to show Tom his new wagon, so he ran after Tom as fast as he could go, calling for him: “Tom! Tom!” He did not think of poor little Rover he was pulling at great speed.
Rover was barking with all his might, “Bow! wow! Bow-wow! bow-wow- wow-wow!” which means “Oh, stop! stop! I’m going to fall out!”
The next minute, Rover went “bumpity-bump!”
out into the road and ran off home, crying,
“Ow-wow-wow!” He was not hurt much, but he was badly frightened.
Rover soon forgot his wagon ride, and he grew and he grew and he grew till he was a big
dog. By that time, Ned’s little brother Jack had a little wagon.
But now Rover was too big to ride in it, so Jack said he would make Rover pull it, and he would ride.
Ned helped him to harness Rover like a horse, and Jack climbed in and took the reins. “Get up,” said Jack, and away they went out into the yard and on into a big field. Just then a little rabbit started up in front of them, and the minute Rover saw it, he began to race after the rabbit. Poor Jack couldn’t hold him at all. Round and round they went, and they ran, and they ran, and they ran! Jack called out, “Whoa, Rover! Stop, Rover!” But Rover didn’t stop. He wanted to catch the rabbit, and he forgot about Jack.
At last the rabbit ran toward a hole under the wall where Rover could not get him. Rover dashed after him as fast as he could go.
“Bumpity-bump” went the little wagon, and just as Rover missed the rabbit, the wheel struck a big stone and poor Jack tumbled out on the ground. Jack didn’t cry. He was not hurt much, and he wasn’t frightened at all.
He ran and caught Rover and said, “Oho! Who cares for a little bump like that? You’re a funny horse, Rover. You didn’t catch your rabbit, you old runaway, did you?”
A penny for your thoughts? If it’s a 1943 copper penny, it could be worth as much as fifty thousand dollars. In 1943, most pennies were made out of steel since copper was needed for World War II, so the 1943 copper penny is ultra-rare. Another rarity is the 1955 double die penny. These pennies were mistakenly double stamped, so they have overlapping dates and letters. If it’s uncirculated, it’d easily fetch $25,000 at an auction. Now that’s a pretty penny.
Red looked across the prairie. He didn't see anything concerning. He wondered why Texas Joe had hollered like that. Texas Joe turned to him. The ghost that Texas Joe had just seen was gone. Texas Joe swatted at the air. Now he felt crazy. "You have to believe me, Red. It was just here," said Texas Joe. Red scowled at him in disbelief. "What was just here, Joe?" he asked. Red was angry with Texas Joe for disturbing his sleep for no apparent reason.
As the train pulled into the station, we finally met eyes. We had been avoiding this moment, but it was here now. Tears welled. Words choked. We hugged each other awkwardly before I grabbed my bags and jumped on the train. A chapter had ended. Things would never be the same between us again.

Cassie rolled over in her bed as she felt the sunlight hit her face. The beams were warming the back of her neck when she slowly realized that it was a Thursday, and she felt a little too good for a Thursday. Struggling to open her eyes, she looked up at the clock. “9:48,” she shouted, “Holy cow!” Cassie jumped out of bed, threw on the first outfit that she grabbed, brushed her teeth in two swipes, threw her books into her backpack, and then ran out the door.
Rip flipped the switches on the booster pack. The engines roared and flared as he soared through the depths of space. "I don't know about this," Rip said into his headset. A voice dotted with static replied through the earphones, "Rip, you are the only one close enough to stop them." Rip looked at the laser cannons on the menacing alien craft, and then he spoke into his headset, "Yeah, ok, but I really don't know about this. How am I supposed to take out a Gorlak warship with a laser pistol?" He waited for a reply. After an awkward silence a single word returned through his earphones, "Improvise." Rip shook his head.
The tomb is dark and dank. Your lantern flutters on the verge of extinguishing as you walk toward the final resting place of King Ramses. As the dim light from your lantern hits the surface of the sarcophagus, the gold glints in your eyes. The handle of the sarcophagus is right in reach. Suddenly you hear the sound of footsteps. There are at least four people running toward you. And you want to run away.
Nolan grabbed the rope. He tried to pull himself up but he knew that he lacked the upper body strength to lift his own weight. "I can't do it," he admitted as he dropped to the mat. The coach blew his whistle and screamed, "Nolan, you get up there and you try again." His face turned red as he shouted orders. Not wanting to make the coach angrier, Nolan lifted himself off the mat and grabbed the rope again. He pulled. Again, Nolan felt weak and intimidated. The coach blew his whistle again.

Anastasia sat by the fountain in the park with her head in her palms. She was weeping mournfully and her clothing was disheveled. In between gasps and sobs, Anastasia cried out a name: “Oh... John...” And then her cell phone beeped. Her hand ran into her purse and her heart fluttered. The text message was from John. She opened up the message and read the few bare words, “I need to get my jacket back from you.” Anastasia threw her head into her arms and continued sobbing.
Tony walked out of the shopping mall with his arms full of bags and the sun shining on him. As he approached his car, he started awkwardly feeling around his pockets with his arm full of bags. He did not find what he was looking for so he transferred the bags on one arm to the other arm, which already had bags. Tony had a lot of bags on one arm. He still couldn't find what he was looking for. Now he dropped the bags and plunged both hands desperately into all of the pockets on his jeans. With a look of despair, Tony ran to his car. He tried to open the door, but it was locked. Then he saw something on the passenger seat of the car. He stopped looking and pulled his phone out of his pocket.
Brandon stepped to the pitcher's mound. He held the ball in his mitt and adjusted his fingers on the seams. He could feel the pressure of the moment. It was the ninth inning. His team was up by one. The bases were loaded. "You can do it," Brandon thought to himself, but he felt hesitation in his heart. He stared at the batter. His name was Jimmy. Jimmy could sense Brandon's hesitation. He was going to capitalize on it. Jimmy knew that Brandon was going to throw it down the middle. He couldn't wait to take a swing. This was Jimmy's chance to be a hero and he had no intentions of blowing it.
The Eagle and the Fox
One morning the fox said to his children, “I will find some eggs for breakfast.” Then he went to the
woods. The fox saw an eagle's
nest in the top branch of a tree.
“How can I reach those eggs?” he thought. “Ha, ha! Now I have a plan.”
He put some grass stalks into his ears and knocked on the tree with them.
“Throw an egg to me,” cried the fox to the eagle in
the nest. “If you do not throw an egg to me, I will knock this great tree over with these grass stalks.”
The eagle was terribly frightened, and she threw an egg down to the fox.
“Throw another egg down to me at once,” demanded the fox when he saw that he had frightened the eagle.
“One egg is enough," said the eagle. “I shall not throw down any more eggs.”
“Throw another egg to me, or I shall knock the tree over with these grass stalks and take all of your eggs,” said the fox.
The eagle was still more frightened, and she threw down another egg.
Then the fox laughed and said, “How could I knock down a great tree with these small grass stalks?”
The eagle became very angry. She flew down from her nest and grasped the fox with her talons.
Then she lifted the fox up and flew with him far out to sea. She dropped him upon a lonely island.
The fox was left on the lonely island. One day he asked himself, “Am I going to go hungry on this island?”
Then the fox began to sing softly. Seals, walruses, porpoises, and whales swam near the island.
“What are you singing about?” asked the sea animals.
“This is what I am singing about,” said the fox. “Are there more large animals in the waters of the sea or on dry land?”
“Certainly there are more animals in the waters of the sea than on dry land,” replied the sea animals.
“Well then, prove it to me,” said the fox. “Come up to the surface of the water and form a raft that will reach from this island to the mainland. Then I can walk over all of you, and I shall be able to count you.”
So the large sea animals—the seals, walruses, porpoises, and the whales-- came up to the surface of the water.
The sea animals formed a great raft that reached from the island across to the mainland.
This was what the fox wanted. He ran over the great raft, pretending to count the animals.
When at last the fox reached the mainland, he jumped ashore and hastened home.
Danny’s mom works in a bank downtown. The bank has a big lobby with comfortable chairs. It has shiny floors and tall windows. Danny thinks his mom is lucky to work in such a nice place. Sometimes Danny gets to go with his dad to pick Danny’s mom up from work. They wait in the lobby until she is ready to leave.
Miss Mitchell’s Comet
Maria Mitchell was born in 1818 in Massachusetts. She was raised as a Quaker. The Quaker religion values education equally for boys and girls. So although many other young girls could not attend school at this time, the Quaker families sent their daughters to school.
In fact, Maria’s father was her first principal. When Maria was 11, her father built his own school and she was a student in this school. Maria also served as a teaching assistant. A teaching assistant is someone who is a teacher’s helper.
Because Maria showed an early interest in the stars, Mr. Mitchell taught Maria about the telescope and astronomy. Astronomy is the study of the universe beyond the earth which includes stars, planets, comets, and galaxies.
Maria later opened her own school and then was offered a job as a librarian. During this time she continued to study astronomy.
In 1847, Maria discovered a comet by using her own telescope. The King of Denmark had offered gold medal prizes to anyone who discovered a comet with a telescope. She won one of these prizes for her comet discovery and this made her name very well-known throughout the world. She became the first professional female astronomer in the United States.
Maria was the first woman elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and also to the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Later in her career, she worked for the U.S. Nautical Almanac Office to trace how the planet Venus yearly orbited.
Maria became professor of astronomy at Vassar College in 1865 and was named Director of the observatory there. Maria soon realized that she was paid much less as a woman professor. She demanded that the college pay her just as much as the men professors. Guess what? After asking for more money, she eventually received the same pay as the men professors.
Maria believed in equality and disagreed with slavery so she refused to wear any clothing made from cotton since the slaves worked in the cotton fields in the South.
She helped start the American Association for the Advancement of Women and served as its president for three years. She was also one of the first women to be elected to the American Philosophical Society.
Maria died in 1889 at the age of 70. The Maria Mitchell Observatory in Nantucket, Massachusetts, is named in her honor. She was given many honors after her death. She is listed in the National Women’s Hall of Fame, and both a World War II liberty ship, and the crater “Mitchell” on the Moon are named after her.
Maria Mitchell is well-known for her quote, “We have a hunger of the mind. We ask for all of the knowledge around us and the more we get, the more we desire.” She truly loved learning and she truly was a great astronomer.
Don’t Give Up

If you’ve tried and have not won, Never stop for crying;
All that’s great and good is done Just by patient trying.
Though young birds, in flying, fall, Still their wings grow stronger;
And the next time they can keep Up a little longer.
Though the sturdy oak has known Many a blast that bowed her,
She has risen again, and grown Loftier and prouder.
If by easy work you beat, Who the more will prize you? Gaining victory from defeat -- That’s the test that tries you!
Race Cars

Zoom! Zoom! Zoom! The race cars were all practicing for the big race tomorrow. Around and around and around the track they went. They practiced weaving in and out of cones, going around the curves, and starting right when the green light went on. Blue Race car and Red Race car were best friends, so they practiced together all day.
That night, they were in the garage resting up for the big race tomorrow. Red Race car couldn’t sleep, though.
“Blue Race car? Are you asleep?” Red Race car asked.
“No. I’m feeling nervous for the race tomorrow. How are you feeling?” Blue Race car answered.
“I’m feeling nervous, too. What can we do? We need to feel rested for the race tomorrow!” said Red Race car.
“Hmmm... we could try taking deep breaths. Ready? We’ll breathe in and count to three. Then we’ll keep the breath in for three seconds. Last, we’ll slowly let all of our breath out. We might have to do that a lot of times before we feel better. Let’s try!” Blue Race car said.
They took some slow, deep breaths together. After a few minutes, both race cars started to feel calm, and drifted off to sleep. They both dreamed about all the fun they’d have at the race.
How to Draw a Shark

Are you interested in sharks? Let’s learn how to draw one! You need a blank piece of paper, a pencil, and an eraser. Even the best artists make mistakes, so use the eraser whenever you make a mistake or want to fix a part of your drawing.
First, start on the left side of the paper, towards the middle. Draw a sideways “V” pointing towards the left side of the paper. In the middle of the sideways “V” draw a dot for an eye. Draw a line above the eye if you want your shark to look mean.
Next, draw a smaller sideways “V” under the first one. That will be the bottom jaw. Draw some teeth inside of the mouth!
Then add a long curved line from the top of the head to the right side of the paper. This is the shark’s back. Add an upside-down “V” in the middle of the curve to make a fin. For the tail, make a sideways “M” or “W” with the points facing the right side of the paper.
Your shark is almost done! Add another curved line for the belly of the shark, from the bottom of the head to the tail. Next to the eyes and mouth, draw 3 curved lines going almost from the top of the shark to the bottom of the shark. These are the gills. Last, draw little “Vs” pointing down for the other fins.
More than a million people immigrate to the United States to start new lives every year, and if they are arriving in New York, one of the first sights that they will see is the Statue of Liberty. The Statue of Liberty stands on Liberty Island, near Manhattan in New York. Though she is often thought to be resident of New York, Liberty Island is actually federal property, which means that the Statue of Liberty belongs to the whole country. The Statue of Liberty is not only the tallest statue in America, it is also one of the most recognizable American symbols.
The Statue of Liberty is huge. From the tip of the torch to the pedestal on which she stands, she is just over 151 feet tall. If you include the pedestal in your measurement, she stands more than 305 feet off of the ground. That’s more than 30 basketball hoops or an entire football field. Her waist size is 35 feet, which would make it awfully tough to find pants, and the tablet she holds is 23 feet long. Don’t worry though; she hasn’t had any trouble holding that tablet yet with her 8 foot index finger. Talk about heavy handed...
Though America financed and built the pedestal on which the Statue of Liberty stands, the statue itself was a gift from France. In this way the complete work, much like the United States, is a product of both American and French contributions. At one time America was ruled by the British. The founding fathers of America chose to fight against Great Britain for the independence of their country. France supported America by providing
money, men, and weapons of war. Had it not been for French contributions during the Revolutionary War, America would not exist in the way that it does today; therefore, it is quite fitting that the Statue of Liberty, which represents freedom, came to being by a joint American and French effort. On October 28th, 1886, just over one-hundred years after America declared its independence from Great Britain, the Statue of Liberty was completed and dedicated by its designer, Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi.
Perhaps no person did more to bring the statue into being than Bartholdi. Not only did Bartholdi gain both French and American approval for the project, he led the French fundraising efforts and designed the appearance of the statue. The appearance of the Statue of Liberty is somewhat derived from Libertas, the Roman goddess of freedom. The torch represents how liberty enlightens the world. The seven points or rays coming from the top of the crown represent the sun, the seven seas, the seven continents, and (as with the torch) how liberty enlightens the world. Though much of the statue was modeled after depictions of goddesses, Bartholdi modeled the face after his mother. Now that’s a Mother’s Day gift that’s hard to top.
Though Bartholdi was responsible for the external appearance of statute, the internal design can be largely credited to innovative designer, Gustave Eiffel. Though Mr. Eiffel is best known for his contributions to a tower in Paris that is named after him, he also engineered the internal structure that holds up the Statue of Liberty. Eiffel chose to use a flexible structure, so that changes in the temperature and strong winds from the ocean would not cause the statue to crack. Because of Eiffel’s crafty design, the Statue of Liberty may sway as much as three inches on a windy day. If the winds exceed 50 miles per hour, the torch may sway five inches. Eiffel is also responsible for including two spiraling staircases on the interior of the statue to help visitors reach the observation point in the crown.
While most people appreciate the Statue of Liberty today, during its construction in the 1870s, many Americans were critical of the project. Some took issue with the fact that Bartholdi was French. They believed that American monuments should be designed and constructed by Americans. Others felt that the statue wasn’t much of a gift since it required Americans to foot the bill for the pedestal. After the Panic of 1873, America fell into a deep economic depression that lasted through much of the 1870s. (During an economic depression people spend less money and it is harder to find jobs.) Because the nation was going through a depression, many Americans thought that money should not be spent to support a giant French statue. I think most Americans would now agree that it was a good investment.
Tiffany's Cookies
Tiffany started baking cookies when she was in fifth grade. By the time she reached seventh grade, her cookies were locally famous. All of her friends would beg her to
make her famous chocolate chip cookies almost every week.
Then one day a local reporter wrote a story about her and her famous cookies. The story was later picked up by National Television news. The story talked about the number of different recipes tiffany could make and how tasty her cookies were. Upon seeing the story, Coco Cookie Company called Tiffany to see if she would sell them her famous cookie recipe.
Tiffany sold them her oatmeal raisin recipe for twenty thousand dollars and her pudding cookie recipe for fifty thousand dollars, but she refused to sell them her chocolate chip recipe. She decided to keep this recipe and start her own company. On August 2002, she started Tiffany Boom Cookies Inc.
Chicago is the third largest city in the United States. Over three million people live in the two hundred and twenty five mile area of Chicago.
The world's first skyscraper was constructed in Chicago in 1885. Today, some of the world's tallest and most famous skyscrapers are found in the city. Located in the heart of the city is the one hundred and ten story Sears Tower, which is among the most famous skyscrapers ever built.
Chicago is often called "The Windy City". It is assumed that this is due to the City's weather, but in the 1990s 11 major U.S. cities outranked Chicago for average annual wind speed.
Gone Forever
A snow leopard roars in the high mountains of Asia. A black rhinoceros gallops across the plains of Africa. A grizzly bear hunts for fish in a North American river. A mother blue whale and her calf glide through the deep waters of the ocean.

All of these animals share the Earth with us. They fascinate us with their beauty, their grace, and their speed. We love observing their behavior, and learning more about their habits. But just loving them is not enough. All of these animals are endangered. Many of them have died, and without special care, they may someday disappear from the Earth.

Why is it important to care for animals like these? One reason is to protect the balance of life on Earth. Another reason is the beauty of the animals themselves. Each species of animal is special. Once it is gone, it is gone forever.

Africa was once filled with an abundance of wild animals. But that is changing fast. One of these animals, the black rhinoceros, lives on the plains of Africa. It has very poor eyesight and a very bad temper! Even though the black rhino is powerful, and can be dangerous, its strength can’t always help it to escape hunters. Some people think that the rhino’s horn has magical powers, and many hunters kill rhinos for their valuable horns. This has caused the black rhino to be placed on the endangered species list.

The elephant seems to represent all that is strong and wild in Africa. It once had no natural enemies, but is now endangered—killed for its ivory tusks.

The fastest land animal, the cheetah, also lives in Africa. It, too, is becoming extinct as people take over more and more of the land that is the cheetah's natural habitat.

Imagine Africa without the powerful rhino, the gentle, intelligent elephant, or the lightning quick cheetah. Once they are gone, they are gone forever.

Wherever people are careless about the land, there are endangered species.

Grizzly bears like to wander great distances. Each bear needs up to 1,500 square miles of territory to call its homeland. Today, because forests have been cleared to make room for people, the grizzly’s habitat is shrinking and the grizzly is disappearing. It joins other endangered North American animals, such as the red wolf and the American crocodile.

In South America, destruction of the rain forest threatens many animals. Unusual mammals, such as the howler monkey and the three-toed sloth, are endangered. Beautiful birds like the great green macaw and the golden parakeet are also becoming extinct. They’re losing their homes in the rain forest, and thousands die when they are caught and shipped off to be sold as exotic pets.

The giant panda of Asia is a fascinating and unique animal. Yet there are only about 1,000 still living in the wild. The giant panda’s diet consists mainly of the bamboo plant, so when the bamboo forests die, so does the panda. China is now making an effort to protect these special creatures from becoming extinct.

Asia’s big cats are also in trouble. The exotic snow leopard lives high in the mountains. Even there, it faces the loss of its natural habitat, and hunters who kill it for its fur. The tiger, the largest of all the big cats, is hunted merely for sport.

Ocean-dwelling animals are in danger of extinction as well. The blue whale is the largest animal in the world. It weighs up to 390,000 pounds. Whale hunting and pollution are this species’ greatest enemies.

Unfortunately, it is people who cause many of the problems that animals face. We alter and pollute their habitats. We hunt them for skins, tusks, furs, and horns. We destroy animals that get in the way of farming or building. And we remove them from their natural habitats and take them home as pets.

What can you do to help endangered animals? Learn as much as you can about them. The more you know, the more you can help. Make an effort to support zoos and wildlife groups. Many zoos breed endangered animals, helping to ensure that they will continue to live on. Contribute to groups, such as the National Wildlife Federation and the Sierra Club, that work hard to protect animals. You can also be a smart shopper and never buy a pet that has been raised in the wilderness.

The world is made up of many living things, and each thing is dependent on the others to survive. If we allow even one species on Earth to become extinct, it has an impact on other living things and changes our world. When we mention any endangered wild animals, let’s hope that we never again have to say, "Gone forever."
How the Chipmunk Got Its Stripes
Long ago, the Earth was covered in darkness. None of the creatures living there knew what daylight looked like.
One day, all of the animals of the forest gathered together in a clearing. They wondered if it would be better to remain in darkness, or if it would be better to also have light. Deer, Chipmunk, Raccoon, Wolf, Bear, and many other creatures climbed to the top of the highest mountain. The mountain stood so tall that there were no trees on its top, and it was covered only with rocks. Millions of stars blinked in the dark sky overhead. The biggest and most powerful animal in the forest was the bear, and he was the first to reach the mountaintop. Bear stood on the highest peak, looked out over the forest below, and argued for remaining in darkness. He said that the creatures of the forest would be able to sleep better in darkness because there would be no light to keep them awake. Most of the other animals were afraid, and they agreed with Bear. Raccoon said that he did not mind the darkness because he was so smart that he could find plenty of food, even in the dark. Wolf was easy to please, too. She didn't mind the darkness because she could howl in darkness or in light.
But one animal did stand up to Bear. Chipmunk, the smallest of the animals, argued that it would be better to have both light and dark. Chipmunk was very clever. As Bear continued to argue for darkness, she made many good arguments for light. 
Slowly, the night passed. Bear grew tired of talking, but Chipmunk chattered on and on, as if she had all of the energy in the world. As the other animals dropped off to sleep, one by one, Chipmunk kept arguing. Finally, the first sunrise ever seen by the animals appeared over the top of the mountain. They woke up and were amazed by what they saw.
Chipmunk began to dance from rock to rock. Bear became angry because he didn't get his way. He roared loudly and ran after Chipmunk. He chased Chipmunk all the way down the mountain. Bear was fast, and he reached out his giant paw to grab Chipmunk. Chipmunk got away, but not before Bear managed to scratch her back with his long claws. And that is why, to this day, you can see stripes on Chipmunk's back!

Caterpillar to Butterfly 
One day our teacher brought a caterpillar to school in a jar. It was eating green leaves. This tiny caterpillar was going to change into a butterfly. Caterpillars usually turn into butterflies outdoors. But we watched our caterpillar change into a butterfly right in our classroom. 
Our teacher told us our caterpillar started out as a tiny egg. The mother butterfly laid the egg on a leaf. The mother butterfly chose the leaf of a plant that the caterpillar would eat. When the caterpillar hatched out of the egg, it was hungry. It ate its own eggshell! Then it started to eat green plants right away. 
The caterpillar’s job was to eat and eat, so it would grow. Each day it got bigger. The caterpillar ate and grew for 12 days. 
Our skin grows with us. But a caterpillar’s skin does not grow. When the caterpillar got too big for its skin, the skin split down the back. 
The caterpillar crawled right out of its own skin. It had a new skin underneath. This is called shedding. Our caterpillar shed its skin four times. After many days our caterpillar was finished growing. It was almost as big as my little finger. 
Then our caterpillar made a special house. First it made a button of silk. It used this button to hang upside down from a twig. 
Then it shed its skin for the last time. Instead of a new skin, this time it formed a chrysalis with a hard shell. We watched the chrysalis for a long time. 
Every day the shell looked the same. But inside the shell changes were happening. 
We waited and waited. Then, one day, somebody shouted, “Look!” The shell was cracking. It was a butterfly! Our butterfly was damp and crumpled. It hung on to the shell while its wings flapped. This pumped blood into its wings. The wings stretched out and dried. Soon our butterfly was ready to fly. 
Our butterfly could not stay in the jar. It needed to be outside with flowers and grass and trees. We watched our butterfly land on a flower. It sipped the flower’s nectar through a long, coiled tube. Maybe it was a female butterfly. Maybe someday she would lay an egg on a leaf.
Hyde Park, New York
Fascinating historic sites await you in historic Hyde Park, New York. Hyde Park is located in Dutchess County in southeastern New York State, less than one hour from New York City.
The 32nd President of the United States (Franklin D. Roosevelt) called Hyde Park home. The
Springwood estate, that contains his Presidential library and museum, is a National historic site. The estate is maintained currently by the National Park Service.

There are many famous mansions that resident in Hyde Park. Wealthy railroad tycoon Fredrick William Vanderbilt’s 211-acre property graces the country side. The 54-room mansion is a modern testament to architecture.
In addition to the F.D. Roosevelt Home and Eleanor Roosevelt's Val-Kill Estate, the Little Red School House and stately mansions of the Vanderbilt and Mill families can delight any visitor. The town is also home to the headquarters of the Culinary Institute of America (CIA). The CIA has been the birthplace of countless has chefs worldwide.
Recreation of all kinds and ability levels is available at the town's parks, and golf courses. Hyde Park also boasts a roller-skating rink, a drive in movie theatre and local diners.
Destination Buenos Aires
And so the three mail planes from Patagonia,1 Chile and Paraguay were returning from the South, the West and the North to Buenos Aires. Their cargo was awaited there so that the plane for Europe could take off, around midnight.
Three pilots, each behind an engine casing heavy as a barge, lost in the night, were contemplating their flight and, approaching the immense city, would descend slowly out of their stormy or calm sky, like strange peasants descending from their mountain.
Rivière, who was responsible for the entire operation, was pacing up and down on the Buenos Aires landing-ground. He remained silent, for until the three planes had arrived, the day held a sense of foreboding for him. Minute by minute, as the telegrams reached him, Rivière was conscious that he was snatching something from fate, gradually reducing the unknown, hauling in his crews out of the night, towards the shore.
One of the men came up to Rivière to give him a radioed message: Chile mail reports that he can see the lights of Buenos Aires.
Good.
Before long, Rivière would hear this plane; already the night was surrendering one of them, just as a sea, swollen with ebbing and flowing and mysteries, surrenders to the shore the treasure it has tossed around for such a long time. And later on, it would give back the other two.
Then this day’s work would be over. Then the worn-out crews would go and sleep, to be replaced by fresh crews. But Rivière would have no rest: the mail from Europe, in its turn, would fill him with apprehension. And so it would always be. Always.
Once there was a young Inca boy. He had no family except for an old llama. Each day the boy and his llama walked many miles, looking for a home. Each night they curled up together and slept. But one starry evening, the old llama died. The boy buried his friend next to an icy stream. Then he sat under a tree and cried. What would he do? He had no family and no home.
The boy cried for a very long time. But there was no one to comfort him. There were only the stars in the sky.
Suddenly, the sky filled with bright light. The boy held his breath. He was afraid to move. One bright star fell to the ground. Slowly, the star took the shape of the old llama. She bent her head and drank from the stream. She looked at the boy and smiled. As she jumped back into the sky, bits of llama wool fell.
As the Sun began to rise, the boy picked up the soft, warm wool. It glowed in his hands like starlight. He carried the wool to the city and sold it. With the money, he bought a house. He bought two young llamas. He never forgot the star llama. And he was never lonely again.
Chess

Chess is called the game of kings. It has been around for a long time. People have been playing it for over 500 years. Chess is based on an even older game from India. The chess we play today is from Europe.
Chess is a two-player game. One player uses the white pieces. The other uses the
black pieces. Each piece moves in a special way. One piece is called the king. Each player has one. The players take turns moving their pieces. If a player lands on a piece, he or she takes it. The game ends when a player loses his or her king. There are a few more rules, but those are the basics.
Some people think that chess is more than a game. They think that it makes the mind stronger. Good chess players use their brains. They take their time. They think about what will happen next. These skills are useful in life and in chess. Chess is kind of like a work out for the mind.
You don't always have lots of time to think when playing chess. There is a type of chess with short time limits. It's called blitz chess. In blitz chess, each player gets ten minutes to use for the whole game. Your clock runs during your turn. You hit the time clock after your move. This stops your clock. It also starts the other player's clock. If you run out of time, you lose. Games of blitz chess are fast-paced.
Chess is not just for people. Computers have been playing chess since the 1970s. At first they did not play well. They made mistakes. As time went on they grew stronger. In 1997, a computer beat the best player in the world for the first time. It was a computer called Deep Blue. Deep Blue was big. It took up a whole room. By 2006 a cell phone could beat the best players in the world. Chess sure has come a long way. Don't you think so?
Terry and First Aid
Terry was going outside to play with her best friend. On her way out the door she tripped and scraped her knee. There was blood all over. Terry panicked she hated the sight of blood. Luckily Terry's mom heard her wails and came running. Terry's mom knew exactly what to do to fix the situation. She got a wet wash cloth, a Band-Aid and two ice cream sandwiches. Soon Terry was on her way with a smile on her face.
Imagine that you're a fly. You're just zipping around the sky, looking for a place to rest, when you see nice pink leaf. That looks like a nice place to land. You think to yourself in your fly head. As you rest your feet on the leaf, you notice something strange. This leaf is hairy. You begin to make your move, but you trigger the plant's reflex. Snap! In one-tenth of a second, you are caught in the Venus flytrap. You will be digested in five to twelve days. Welcome to the world of carnivorous plants!
There are over a quarter of a millions plant species. Only 600 or so are carnivorous. We call them this because they attract, trap, and eat bugs. Like other plants, they get energy from the sun. But unlike other plants, they get their nutrients from their prey. Carnivorous plants live in bogs and places where the soil lacks nutrients. Most plants get nutrients from the soil. Carnivorous plants have turned to other sources.
The snap of the Venus flytrap is not the only way that plants eat bugs. Pitcher plants trick their prey into landing on them. They offer nectar bribes to the foolish insects that would take them. True to their name, pitcher plants have deep chambers. Their landing surface is slippery. They have inward pointing hairs, making it hard to escape. The fly lands on the pitcher plant to eat, but slips into a pit filled with digestive fluids and is eaten.
Then there're sundews. We call them sundews because they sparkle in the sun as if covered in morning dew. Of course, that sparkle is from something much more treacherous. It is a sweet goo called mucilage that bugs can't resist. Sundews create mucilage to attract bugs. As they fly in to eat, bugs become trapped in the very object of their desire. They soon exhaust themselves by trying to escape the mucilage. Or the sundew's tentacles, which respond to prey by curling around them, smother them. Bugs usually die in about 15 minutes. Then the plant dissolves its prey in enzymes and absorbs the nutrients.
Have you ever walked into trouble and found that you couldn't get out? So has every insect that has ever wandered into a corkscrew plant. Bugs love to investigate plants for nectar and food. Corkscrew plants have inviting stems. Curved hairs line the inside of these stems. These hairs allow insects to go up the stems, but not back. Going forward leads a chamber filled with digestive fluid, the plant's stomach. Bugs who wander into the corkscrew plant find that they are unable to escape. They must march to their own demise.
And then there are the bladderworts. They're about as nice as they sound. They live in water and float near the surface. Their traps are like small bladders hidden beneath the water. Only their flowers are visible from the surface. When bugs swim into the trigger hairs, the plant reacts. A trapdoor in the bladder opens up. The bladder sucks up the prey and the water surrounding it. A tenth of a second later, the bladder shuts again. The plant has trapped the prey. It releases digestive fluids. The prey will be digested within hours.
Carnivorous plants might sound tough, but they are difficult to keep at home. They are built to survive in places that other plants cannot. This specialization comes at a cost. They have a hard time adapting to other environments. Their strengths become weaknesses in rich soil. They depend on the harsh yet delicate environments in which they thrive. They are not so hardy after all. Still, there's something to be said about the power of life when one finds a plant that can survive in barren soil.
Bobby’s family went to the fair. There were all kinds of rides, and fun things to see. When it was time to leave, Bobby’s dad bought him a yellow gas-filled balloon. Bobby held onto the string carefully so that his balloon wouldn’t float away. His mom warned him that hot-air balloons only last for a day. The gas leaks out slowly, until it is all gone.
When they got home, Bobby took his balloon to his room. He let it float up to the ceiling. He thought about his balloon flying up into the sky. He thought that would be a fun thing to watch.
Bobby and his parents went out to the driveway. Bobby let go of the balloon string. They watched the yellow balloon float up, up, and up. It looked smaller and smaller as it went higher and higher, and it finally disappeared. Everyone agreed that watching the balloon float up into the sky was better than having a plain old balloon the next day.
Fire Alarm

Beep! Beep! Beep! Do you know what to do if the fire alarm goes off in the middle of the night?
First, crawl to your bedroom door. Crawling is safer, since smoke rises. Feel the door with the back of your hand. If it feels cold, open the door. Look around. Find the closest door to outside, and crawl outside. Go to the meeting place your family picked, and wait for them to meet you.
What happens if the door feels hot? Do not open the door! Crawl to get a blanket, then crawl to your bedroom window. Open the window and let most of the blanket hang outside. Close the window to hold the blanket in place. Firefighters will see the blanket and know to come and get you. Stay under your window so they can find you easily.
Firefighters might look scary, but they are there to help. They have to yell, because they have masks on, so it is hard to hear them. Do not be afraid of the firefighters, they will keep you safe.
It is important to have a plan in place with your family in case the fire alarm goes off so that you all stay safe!
Second Grade Substitute
Josh waved to his mom, sat down, sighed, and looked out the window. He checked his watch. He would be at school in about ten minutes. His stomach was full of butterflies.
The bus stopped, and five more students got on. Maddox sat down next him and gave him a nervous look and a half smile.
“Are you ready?” he asked him.
Josh shrugged his shoulders. Their teacher, Mrs. Whitman, was gone for the day, and they were having a substitute.
Normally, they wouldn’t mind this, but their teacher had told them that Mr. Stafford would be filling in for her. The boys had never had Mr. Stafford before, but the older kids had told them all about him.
Brendan had said Mr. Stafford has tattoos all over and the biggest muscles he has ever seen! Max said that he had piercing blue eyes, a thick dark beard, big teeth and a huge scar on his face. They both said that Mr. Stafford was the biggest, meanest and scariest teacher they had ever had!
The bus came to a stop and Josh looked up. They has arrived at the school. He took a deep breath and headed out of the bus.
Josh and Maddox headed up the second grade hallway. They were walking a little more slowly than normal. Josh noticed that Mrs. Whitman wasn’t standing at the classroom door like she usually was. He sighed again, put his head down and walked into the classroom.
He looked around the room for their substitute teacher. He didn’t see the big, scary man anywhere. Puzzled, he said to Maddox, “I don’t see him. Do you?”
Maddox pointed, and Josh’s eyes followed the direction of his hand. Then he spotted their substitute, in the reading area with several students.
Maddox and Josh instantly felt better and smiled. Mr. Stafford didn’t have huge muscles or scars. He didn’t have tattoos all over him, and his eyes and teeth were normal. He didn’t look scary at all.
He was an older man, wearing grey pants, a plaid shirt, a dark green cardigan sweater and glasses. He had a warm smile and gentle laugh.
The kids all began to clap as he finished reading a story. “Second grade, I hope you enjoyed that book. Are you ready to start our day together? I’m looking forward to it!” he told them. Josh smiled. Suddenly, he was really looking forward to it too.
Amanda’s News
It was a long week for Amanda at school. She stayed after school to work on a special project three days in a row. When she got home on Friday, she plopped down in her favorite chair with a sigh.
“What’s going on, Amanda?” her dad asked as he was reading the newspaper.
“I have to create a webpage for my technology class, and it is taking a lot more time than I thought it would,”
Amanda answered.
Her dad looked over his newspaper and said, “WhenI was your age, we didn’t even have computers, let alone the internet.” He folded his newspaper and asked Amanda what the webpage is about.
“It’s about the difference between newspaper news and internet news,” Amanda said and added,” I have to provide information, examples and illustrations.”
“Sounds tough; do you have someone to help you?” her dad asked.
“I have a partner named Zach,” Amanda replied. “We did research on the internet today and found some pictures to use.”
“You are lucky you have the internet for research,” her dad said. “Back in my day, we had to do all of our research at the library and look through books, newspapers and magazines.” He then asked, “What is the difference between newspaper news and internet news?”
Amanda explained to her father the main differences: newspaper news is printed on paper, and internet news is published online; newspaper news is only available once a day, and internet news is published almost as soon as the news happens; many newspapers don’t even print a daily paper, and internet news is published around the clock.
When Amanda and Zach finished their webpage, it had many examples which compared the times certain news stories were available to readers of newspapers and readers of internet news. It also had pictures of traditional newspaper headlines and internet news headlines.
Amanda’s dad saw the webpage and thought it was very well done. He asked, “Which type of news do you like better?”
I like internet news better because I like to learn about the news when it happens,” she answered.
Her dad said, “I still like newspaper news better because I like to hold the paper in my hands and turn the pages.”
Amanda plopped down on her chair again and said, “You are so old school, Dad.”
A Response to 9-1-1
A First Responder is someone who immediately tries to help with some incident that occurs. This could be a response to someone who is hurt or injured, a natural disaster (like a fire, flood or tornado), or maybe your pet needs help.
The response might be at your house or in your neighborhood or community. When called, the First Responder is trained to come right away. A quick response is the surest way that the incident can be resolved in the shortest amount of time and with the least amount of damage to individuals and to property.
A First Responder is responsible for the protection and preservation of life, property, evidence, and the environment. They are trained in many areas like emergency management, public health, clinical care, public works, and in operating equipment.
Together, they work to provide support services at the “onset” of an incident. “Onset” means at the early stages. They work to help in all response areas of prevention, response, and recovery:
♦ Prevention is trying to stop more things happening in the future as a result of this incident.
♦ Response means what is done in the incident and how you react to those individuals in the incident.
♦ Recovery means what is done to restore or rebuild (whatever it is) back to what it was like prior to the incident.
Dialing 9-1-1 is one way you can ask for help from First Responders. You should know when it is appropriate to call this emergency help number. Dialing 9-1-1 in cases that are not emergencies should be prevented. It wastes people’s time and takes away resources that are needed from other emergency situations. Your parents and teachers can talk to you about dialing 9-1-1.
We salute those people who are First Responders and we thank them for their quick responses to helping out in situations when needed. We thank them for their special technical skills and personal skills of kindness and caring they bring with them on every response job.
Busy Bees
Sometimes we call someone a “busy bee.” In fact, bees really are busy. They never sleep, even at night. The reason they buzz is because their wings move so fast. Their wings move up and down more than 200 times each second.
As you cross the crystal bridge, you hear the sound of two voices coming from the shores of the river. One of the voices sounds distressed. The other sounds angry. At the end of the crystal bridge is a herd of wild horses. You notice that they are stamping the ground violently. You would like to go to the shore and find out who's talking.
Chef Blanka marveled at the length of the lunch line. She knew that there was no way that they could feed all of these students. "There might be enough food for a quarter of 'em," she thought to herself. Chef Blanka exchanged looks with Sous Chef Tamika. Sous Chef Tamika was thinking the same thing. Sous Chef Tamika wanted to run home and come back tomorrow, but she didn't want to let these kids down. Her daughter was in that line. She felt like she had to do something.
It is estimated that over twenty million pounds of candy corn are sold in the US each year. Brach’s, the top manufacturer, sells enough candy corn to circle the earth 4.25 times if each piece were laid end to end. That’s a lot of candy corn, but that’s nothing compared to the production of Tootsie Rolls. Over 64 million Tootsie Rolls are produced every day! But even Tootsie Rolls have got nothing on the candy industry’s staple product: chocolate. Confectioners manufacture over twenty billion pounds of chocolate in the United States each year. Now that’s a mouthful!
Crack! Thunder struck and rain poured. Max stared blankly out the window, trying to contain his emotions that raged like the weather. He was beginning to lose it. Dropping the kite from his hand, Max broke out into full sob. His mother comforted him, “There, there, Max. We’ll just find something else to do.” She began to unpack the picnic basket that was on the counter and offered him a sandwich. Max snapped, “I don’t wanna sand-mich!” A flash from the sky lit up the living room. Boom! Mom sighed.
Patricia was dreaming of candy when the harsh sound of Mr. Herbert's voice woke her, "No sleeping in class, Patricia!" Her heart was beating fast. She turned around saw Mr. Herbert standing right behind her. This startled her. "Oh my gosh, Mr. Herbert. You didn't have to wake me up so rudely." Mr. Herbert scowled at her and said, "Oh, I'm sorry. Is my lesson disturbing your beauty sleep? Get up now or leave!" Patricia felt too groggy to fight so she just said, "Ok, I'm sorry, Mr. Herbert. I'm awake." Mr. Herbert glared at her and continued teaching his lesson.
“Tommy!” Mom called out as she walked in the front door. “Tommy,” she continued shouting, “I sure could use some help with these groceries. There was still no reply. Mom walked into the kitchen to put the grocery bags down on the counter when she noticed shattered glass from the picture window all over the living room floor and a baseball not far from there. “I’m going to kill you, Tommy!” Mom yelled to herself as she realized that Tommy’s shoes were gone.
 The Land of Candy spread before me. I licked my lips as chocolate bunnies bounded through the peanut butter fields. I heard the songs of the sour gummy birds in the taffy trees. My tummy rumbled when I saw caramel cobwebs spun by sugar spiders in rock candy caves. I wanted to eat everything that I saw, but Mr. Travis had warned me against that. He said that the elders would view me as a monster if word got out that I was ravaging the Land of Candy to appease my sweet tooth.
"You need to try harder, Kyle, if you want to graduate," Mr. Jenkins intoned. Kyle nodded his head, but he wasn't really listening. He was picturing himself snowboarding down a mountain while Mr. Jenkins lectured him. Somehow, Kyle knew exactly where to put the "uh-huhs" even though he wasn't listening to a word that Mr. Jenkins was saying. "Do you want to graduate, Kyle?" Mr. Jenkins asked. "Uh-huh," replied Kyle.
Screech! When a driver pushes on the brake pedal, it initiates a process that causes the vehicle to stop in motion. We literally trust braking systems with our lives every time we get into a vehicle or cross at a busy intersection. How does this life-critical process work? It begins when the pedal is pushed. At this moment brake fluid is released into the braking mechanisms. As the fluid collects, this creates a leverage, which causes a friction to be applied. This friction will create a force that will cause the wheels to stop and allow you to reach your destination safely. Beep! Beep!
The trapeze artist stood high on the platform. The whole crowd was silent. He was working without a net. The trapeze artist rubbed his hands on his knees, grabbed the flying trapeze, and sprung into the air. Just as the trapeze had swung its full length, the trapeze artist released his grip and did a triple flip. He narrowly caught a second trapeze bar and swung from it by his legs. The crowd cheered. Another trapeze artist ascended the platform.
The Littlest Dragon
The littlest dragon on the mountain was called Sparkle, because his hide was pure white, and sparkly. Some of the dragons were blue, some were green, and some were red. But Sparkle was the only all-white dragon in their group.
One sunny day, Sparkle climbed up to the top of the mountain. He sat down on a big rock and looked out at the ocean. The mountain was on an island with long sandy beaches. Sparkle shook his head. He was worried. It was almost time for their group of dragons to fly south for the winter, and Sparkle had not yet learned to fly. His mom had tried to teach him. His dad had tried to teach him. His big sister had tried to teach him. But every time Sparkle jumped up and flapped his wings, he just tumbled down the hill.
Sparkle heard a sound, and turned to look. A gray seagull had flown down, and was perched on the rock beside the little dragon. It was a big seagull, but compared to Sparkle it was quite small. The seagull was about as big as one of Sparkle’s feet.
“Why were you shaking your head?” the seagull asked.
“I have a bit of a problem,” said Sparkle. “But who are you?”
“I am Sage,” the seagull said. “I am called Sage because I am very
wise. What is your problem? Maybe I can help you with it.” Sparkle lowered his large head. “I can’t learn to fly,” he said.
“Everyone has tried to teach me. But when I jump up in the air, I just tumble down the hill.”
Sage moved his head slowly up and down, thinking. Then he looked at Sparkle. “Will you show me your take-off?” he asked.
Sparkle stood up. He jumped as hard as he could and started flapping his wings. He tumbled down the hill.
Again Sage moved his head slowly up and down. “I think I have the answer!” Sage cried. “You’re trying to push yourself up with your legs. You have to pull yourself up with your wings! You have to start by raising your wings up high. Then move your wings down hard. You only have to jump a little bit.”
Sparkle climbed back up the hill. He looked at Sage for a minute. He raised his wings up high. Then he pushed his wings down hard, and jumped just a little bit. He felt the air moving under his wings, and he flapped them some more. Then he stretched his wings out and soared. Sparkle was flying!
Sage flew up and joined his new friend, Sparkle. They flew up high. They flew down close to the ocean. They sailed around in circles.
After a while, Sage called, “Time for me to go home, Sparkle!”
“Goodbye, Sage!” Sparkle called back. “And thank you for this gift of flying! You are very wise!”
Max’s Good Habit
Max reads more than anyone he knows. He loves to read during all of his free time. His friends tease him because he would rather read than play video games, but his parents and his teachers are proud of him. They say reading is important, and it will help him learn about the world around him. They also tell him it is a good habit to read on a regular basis.
One day Max was reading a magazine article about volcanoes. He told his friends all about volcanoes and what causes them to erupt. The very next week, his class was assigned a science project about volcanoes. Guess who everyone wanted in their project group? Max’s friends weren’t teasing him anymore.
Max ended up being in a group with Liz, Anna and Josh. The assignment was to create a poster board with information about volcanoes and to build a volcano model.
Max made copies of the magazine article about volcanoes so his project partners could read about them too. They also went to the library to look for more information about volcanoes.
The group met at Anna’s house that night to organize the information and decide what they wanted to put on the poster board. They all asked Max what he thought was most important. Then they decided on the following together.
What causes volcanoes to erupt? The release of pressure when magma rises up through cracks in the Earth’s crust causes volcanoes to erupt.
How do volcanoes form? Lava from eruptions cools and forms new crust. The crust builds up after several eruptions to form a volcano. How hot is lava? Lava can get as hot as 1,165 Fahrenheit.
The next night they met at Josh’s house to build their volcano. They used cardboard and modeling clay. First they made a volcano shape with the cardboard, and then they covered the shape in brown and red clay. The red was lava flowing down the volcano. They also attached red clay to the top of the volcano to make it look like it was erupting.
The volcano looked great. Max, Liz, Anna and Josh were very proud of their hard work. When they turned in their project, their teacher was proud too. Thanks to Max’s good habit, they earned an A+ on both parts of the project.
Healthy Muscles Matter
Did you know you have more than 600 muscles in your body? These muscles help you move, lift things, pump blood through your body, and even help you breathe.
When you think about your muscles, you probably think most about the ones you can control. These are your voluntary (VOL-uhn-ter-ee) muscles, which means you can control their movements. They are also called skeletal (SKEL-i-tl) muscles, because they attach to your
bones and work together with your bones to help you walk,
run, pick up things, play an instrument, throw a baseball,
kick a soccer ball, push a lawnmower, or ride a bicycle. The
muscles of your mouth and throat even help you talk!
Keeping your muscles healthy will help you to be able to walk, run, jump, lift things, play sports, and do all the other things you love to do. Exercising, getting enough rest, and eating a balanced diet will help to keep your muscles healthy for life.
Why healthy muscles matter to you
Healthy muscles let you move freely and keep your body strong.
Healthy muscles let you move freely and keep your body strong. They help you to enjoy playing sports, dancing, walking the dog, swimming, and other fun activities. And they help you do those other (not so fun) things that you have to do, like making the bed, vacuuming the carpet, or mowing the lawn.
Strong muscles also help to keep your joints in good shape. If the muscles around your knee, for example, get weak, you may be more likely to injure that knee. Strong muscles also help you keep your balance, so you are less likely to slip or fall.
And remember—the activities that make your skeletal muscles strong will also help to keep your heart muscle strong!
Different kinds of muscles have different jobs
Skeletal muscles are connected to your bones by tough cords of tissue called tendons (TEN-duhns). As the muscle contracts, it pulls on the tendon, which moves the bone. Bones are connected to other bones by ligaments (LIG-uh-muhnts), which are like tendons and help hold your skeleton together.
Smooth muscles are also called involuntary muscles since you have no control over them. Smooth muscles work in your digestive system to move food along and push waste out of your body. They also help keep your eyes focused without your having to think about it.
Cardiac (KAR-dee-ak) muscle. Did you know your heart is also a muscle? It is a specialized type of involuntary muscle. It pumps blood through your body, changing its speed to keep up with the demands you put on it. It pumps more slowly when you’re sitting or lying down, and faster when you’re running or playing sports and your skeletal muscles need more blood to help them do their work.
The Snowman Problem
Kyle and Emma were playing in the snow. It was the kind of snow that was perfect for making snowballs. They talked about building a fort or having a snowball fight.
“How about we make a snowman?” Kyle asked Emma. “Let’s make the biggest snowman ever!”
“Great idea!” Emma said.
The two children started working on their snowman. They each started with a small pile of snow that they rolled into a ball. Next, they rolled their snowballs on the ground, making them bigger and bigger.
“Do you think my snowball is big enough?” Emma asked.
“Not yet!” Kyle replied. “Keep rolling!”
Emma and Kyle kept rolling their snowballs through the snow. Soon, the snowballs were so heavy that they could barely push them. They decided to start making
a smaller snowball to use for the snowman’s head.
Once the last snowball was ready, it was time to put the snowman together.
“Help me lift this big snowball on top of the other one,” Emma said to Kyle.
The children stood on each side of the huge snowball and tried as hard as they could to lift it. It was way too heavy for them to pick up! They could not even lift it one inch off the ground.
“Now what?” Emma sighed. “Should we start again and just make a small snowman?”
Kyle and Emma stared at the 3 balls of snow on the ground. They felt disappointed, but Kyle was determined to build a big snowman.
“I have an idea,” Kyle replied. “Help me push this snowball.”
Emma and Kyle pushed one of the big snowballs so it was right beside the other one. Next, Kyle rolled the smallest snowball over and added it to the line of snowballs.
“What are you doing?” Emma asked. “Why do you have all the snowballs in a row?”
“I’m making a snowman,” Kyle smiled. “But he’s lying down!”
Emma laughed. “I know the perfect things to add to our snowman!”
She ran into the house. A few minutes later, she came out with sunglasses, a big, floppy hat and a glass of lemonade.
“He’s lying on the beach!” she exclaimed, as she carefully put the hat and sunglasses in place on the smallest snowball. Kyle laughed and asked his sister, “Should we put some sunscreen on him so he doesn’t get sunburned?”
Giving

Shari was so excited for her birthday. She thought about the fun party she was going to have and the presents she would get. But, her mom told her that she had to make room for new toys by choosing some old toys to give away.
Shari was not happy. She loved all of her toys! Her mom sat down with her in front of her toy chest. They looked through the toys one at a time. Most of the toys Shari wanted to keep. Her mom put them in the “keep” pile. When they got about halfway through the toy box, Shari saw one stuffed animal that she had forgotten about.
“Oh, look at how cute he is! Keep him, please,” she told her mom.
“Shari, you forgot about him. Are you sure you will really play with him again? What if you get a new stuffed animal that you like better?” Mom asked.
“Well, now I remember him. I will play with him.”
“That’s fine, but there might be someone else out there who would love to have him. Some kids don’t have any stuffed animals,” said Mom. Shari said she would decide later.
When they were finished, there was a very large “keep” pile, and some toys in the “donate” and “maybe” piles. Mom and Shari cleaned the “maybe” and “donate” toys, then put them in bags. They went to a place where kids lived who didn’t have homes, and asked the workers if they could hand out toys. Seeing the kids’ smiles made Shari so happy, and a lot of kids said this was the only toy they had. Shari turned to her mom and asked if they could get the “maybe” bag out of the car. The other kids needed those toys more than she did! Shari felt so great that her choice made the other kids so happy.
Max is Marcy’s puppy. Marcy is only six years old, but she takes good care of Max. She makes sure Max has water in his dish, and she takes him for walks.
One day, Marcy came home from school. She went to her room and changed her clothes. She shut the closet door. Then she went to look for Max. But Marcy couldn’t find Max anywhere. Then Marcy heard a bark. The bark was coming from Marcy’s room.
But Max wasn’t in Marcy’s room. Marcy heard another bark. It was coming from her closet! She must have closed Max in the closet by mistake! Marcy laughed, and gave Max a big hug.
Did you know that humans aren't the only species that use language? Bees communicate by dancing. Whales talk to each other by singing. And some apes talk to humans by using American Sign Language.
Meet Koko: a female gorilla born at the San Francisco Zoo on July 4th, 1971. Koko learned sign language from her trainer, Dr. Penny Patterson. Patterson began teaching sign language to Koko in 1972, when Koko was one year old. Koko must have been a good student, because two years later she moved onto the Stanford University campus with Dr. Patterson. Koko continued to learn on the campus until 1976. That's when she began living full-time with Patterson's group, the Gorilla Foundation. Patterson and Koko's relationship has blossomed ever since.
Dr. Patterson says that Koko has mastered sign language. She says that Koko knows over 1,000 words, and that Koko makes up new words. For example, Koko didn't know the sign for ring, so she signed the words finger and bracelet. Dr. Patterson thinks that this shows meaningful and constructive use of language.
Not everyone agrees with Dr. Patterson. Some argue that apes like Koko do not understand the meaning of what they are doing. Skeptics say that these apes are just performing complex tricks. For example, if Koko points to an apple and signs red or apple, Dr. Patterson will give her an apple. They argue that Koko does not really know what the sign apple means. She only knows that that if she makes the right motion, one which Dr. Patterson has shown her, then she gets an apple. The debate is unresolved, but one thing is for certain: Koko is an extraordinary ape.
Sign language isn't the only unusual thing about Koko. She's also been a pet-owner. In 1983, at the age of 12, researchers said that Koko asked for a cat for Christmas. They gave Koko a stuffed cat. Koko was not happy. She did not play with it, and she continued to sign sad. So for her birthday in 1984, they let her pick a cat out of an abandoned liter. Koko picked a gray cat and named him "All Ball." Dr. Patterson said that Koko loved and nurtured All Ball as though he were a baby gorilla. Sadly, All Ball got out of Koko's cage and was hit by a car. Patterson reported that Koko signed "Bad, sad, bad" and "Frown, cry, frown, sad" when she broke the news to her.
It seems like Patterson and Koko have a good relationship, but not everyone agrees with it. Some critics believe that Patterson is humanizing the ape. They believe that apes should be left in the most natural state possible. Even Dr. Patterson struggles with these feelings. When asked if her findings could be duplicated by another group of scientists, she said, "We don't think that it would be ethical to do again." She went on to argue that animals should not be kept in such unnatural circumstances. Nonetheless, Koko lives in her foundation today.
As for the future, Dr. Patterson and the Gorilla Foundation would love to get Koko to an ape preserve in Maui, but they are having trouble securing the land. So unless you have a few million dollars to spare, Koko's going to be spending her time in Woodland, California with Dr. Patterson. Koko probably doesn't mind that. If she moved to Hawaii, she'd have to give up her Facebook page and Twitter feed, and she's got like 50 thousand "likes." Some may deny that she knows sign language, but nobody says that she doesn't know social networking.
Televisions show sounds and pictures. They get data from cables, discs, or over-the-air signals. They turn this data into sounds and images. People watch news and shows on them. You probably call them TVs.
John Baird made the first TV in 1925. It had one color. It could only show 30 lines. This was just enough room for a face. It didn't work well, but it was a start.
The first TV station was set up in 1928. It was in New York. Few people had TVs. The broadcasts were not meant to be watched. They showed a Felix the Cat doll for two hours a day. The doll spun around on a record player. They were experimenting. It took many years to get it right.
By the end of the 1930s, TVs were working well. America got its first taste at the 1939 World's Fair. This was one of the biggest events ever. There were 200 small, black and white TVs set up around the fair. The U.S. President gave a speech over the TVs. The TVs were only five inches big but the people loved it.
They wanted TVs. But World War II was going on during this time. Factories were busy making guns and bombs. When the war was over, TV spread across the country.
By 1948 there were 4 big TV networks in America. They aired their shows from 8 to 11 each night. Local shows were aired at other times. Most of the time, nothing was shown at all. TV was not "always on" like it is now.
Color TVs came out in 1953. They cost too much money for most. Also, shows were aired in black and white. By 1965, color TVs were cheaper. TV stations started airing shows in color. People had to switch if they wanted to see the shows.
Now most TVs are high-def. This means that they have many lines on them. This makes the image clear. TVs have come a long way since Baird's 30 line set. High-def TVs have 1080 lines. There are state of the art sets called 4K TVs. These TVs have 3,840 lines. Some people watch TV in 3D. I wonder what they will come up with next. Smell-o-vision anyone?
The Big Run
Mary likes to run. Ever since she was in third grade, she has been training to run long distances. Now that she was in eighth grade, her parents agreed to let her run in the Banana Classic. The Banana Classic is a ten-kilometer race. It takes place every year in Mattydale. The winners get a lifetime supply of peanuts and fruit juice from Paul's Peanut Stand.
Mary practiced by running ten kilometers, twice per day. On the average run, she would finish in thirty minutes. Last year's winner finished the race in twenty-six minutes and ten seconds.
On the day of the race, Mary ran faster than she ever had in past. As she came across the last kilometer of the race, she was in fourth place. She picked up the pace and quickly reached second place, just as she could see the finish line. She ran fast as should in a mad dash to the finish line, but she just wasn't fast enough to get ahead of leader.
My Rocket Ship
When I fall asleep, I dream about what it would be like to have a rocket ship. If I had a rocket ship, my first destination would be the Earth's moon, which is called Luna. When I got to Luna I would jump all around. Because there is little gravity I would be able to jump very high.
After I finished jumping all over the moon, I would fly to Saturn and travel around Saturn's beautiful rings. On my way to Saturn, I would try to avoid a number of Asteroids. Asteroids are large pieces of rocks and minerals.
In my science class I learned that would take me almost my entire life to travel to Pluto. Pluto is the last Planet in our solar system. Because it's so far from our Sun that it is super cold. I wish I could see Pluto up close.
Blueberries

Do you know how blueberries grow? They grow on bushes. Each blueberry is small and round. Many blueberries can grow on one bush. At first, the blueberries are green. The green berries are not ready to eat yet. They need a lot of sun and rain to help them become fat and sweet. When the berries turn blue, they are ripe and ready to be picked.

Some farmers grow blueberries in big fields. The people who live nearby can earn money by helping to pick the blueberries. Each one takes a pail out to the field and fills it with blueberries. They work fast so that they can fill many pails. They want to earn as much money as they can. When they are done picking, their fingers are blue from the juice of the berries!

After the blueberries are picked, they are put into boxes and sent to stores. People buy the blueberries and take them home to eat. Some people like to wash the berries and eat them one by one. Other people like to cook with blueberries. They make blueberry muffins and pancakes.

No matter how you eat them, blueberries taste great!
The American Museum of Natural History
What makes the American Museum of Natural History unique? Is the fact that
it spans over several New York City blocks? How about that it houses 38
exhibition halls or that it contains a planetarium? Could it be that Ulysses S. Grant laid the cornerstone of the building in 1869? All those and more, what makes this building so special is that it is the largest natural history museum in the world.
The Museum is home to over 30 million specimens of nature, yet only fraction of this collection can be displayed at any one time. The full size model of a Blue Whale gives you a taste of the power and beauty of these humongous creatures of the sea.
The Hall itself consists of over 25 buildings and has been featured in countless pieces of American pop culture. This includes movies, television, novels, and even video games. Holden Caulfield the main character of J.D. Salinger’s epic The Cather in the Rye finds himself heading towards the museum and having great childhood memories of it.
The Woodcutter and his Axe
A Woodcutter was hard at work beside a river. He chopped down a tree and
chopped off the branches, one by one. He stacked the small branches in one pile and the large branches in another pile. It was hard work, and he grew tired. By accident, he dropped his axe into the deep river. He sat down on the river bank, and put his head in his hands.
The Woodcutter heard a sound in the nearby bushes, He lifted his head and was amazed to see a strange little man dressed all in green. He thought perhaps it was one of the Wood Gnomes of the fairy tales, and he was quite correct. “Why are you so upset?” asked the Wood Gnome. The Woodcutter explained what had happened, and the Wood Gnome walked closer to the bank of the deep river and dived right in headfirst. In moments he climbed out, carrying a golden axe. “Is this your axe, sir?” asked the Wood Gnome. The Woodcutter shook his head with sorrow. The Wood Gnome dived back into the river, and came up with a silver axe. “Is this your axe?” he asked. Again, the woodcutter shook his head, and again the Wood Gnome dived into the river.
This time, he came out of the river with the Woodcutter’s own axe, and the Woodcutter shouted out with joy. The Wood Gnome told the Woodcutter that he must keep the gold and silver axes as well as his own, as a reward for his honesty. The Woodcutter went home and told all of his friends what had happened. He showed them the gold and silver axes.
The next day, one of those friends went to the place by the river that the Woodcutter had described. He threw his axe into the river, and sat down on the riverbank and buried his head in his bands. The Wood Gnome appeared, and asked him why he was so upset. The Woodcutter’s friend said that he had dropped his axe into the river by mistake, and the Wood Gnome quickly dived into the river, and came up with a golden axe. “Is this your axe?” the Wood Gnome asked, and the man reached for it greedily, saying that it was the very axe he had lost. The Wood Gnome kept the golden axe, and left without going back into the river for the axe that the dishonest man had thrown there on purpose.
The Play
Sarah was hoping to get the lead role in the upcoming school play. Last year she played the role of Darma in the school's production of "My Favorite Day." The audience loved her performance. She received a huge round of applause at the end of every performance.
This year the school will be putting on a production called "My Crazy Week."
Sarah began to practice her lines three times a day for four weeks before auditions. The week before the audition she began to practice with two friends.
Sarah practiced the part of Jane, Mike practiced the part of James, and Amanda practiced the part of Teresa.
When the auditions started Sarah did an excellent job! Her outstanding performance won her the role of Jane. As soon as she learned that she won the part, she ran home to practice for opening night.
Jacob the Great
Jacob hated finishing things almost as much as he loved starting them. As a result, he had gotten into a million hobbies and activities, but he never stuck with any of them long enough to get any good.
He begged his mother for months for a guitar so that he could play Black Eyed Peas songs to Angie, a girl he liked, but after he finally got one for Christmas, he found out that guitars don’t play themselves. He took a few lessons, but strumming the strings hurt his fingers and he didn’t like holding the pick, so now the five-hundred dollar guitar lives under his bed.
After reading an ad in the back of one of his comic books, Jacob decided that he wanted a Wonder- Sweeper 5000 metal detector, so that he could find buried pirate treasure. So he mowed lawns all summer and didn’t spend his money on ice-cream like his younger brother, Alex. He saved it all in a shoe box in his closet. Then he shoveled driveways all winter, and he didn’t spend his money on candy and chips like his classmates. By the time spring came he had saved $200, and he purchased the Wonder-Sweeper 5000 metal detector. He beeped it around the park for a while, be he soon found out that no pirates had ever set sail in his neighborhood, and if they had they didn’t leave any treasure. Even though he found a key ring, forty-seven cents, and all the bottle caps he could throw, he buried the metal detector in his closest.
Given Jacob’s history with hobbies, it was no surprise that Jacob’s father was reluctant to buy him a magician’s kit for his birthday. “Geez, Jacob... You sure you wouldn’t rather I got you more guitar lessons?” He suggested. Jacob was insistent. “Dad, you’ve got to get me the magician’s kit. This time I’ll stick with it for real. I promise! Come on, Dad,” Jacob begged. Jacob’s father sighed and then replied, “Oh, I don’t know, Jacob. Things are awfully tight right now.” But Jacob’s father was reminded of his own youth long ago, when he quit football and started karate practice before hardly getting his equipment dirty. So when Jacob’s birthday came around, Jacob was both surprised and pleased to find the magician’s kit that he had desired so badly with a big bright bow on it.
Jacob opened up the box and unwrapped the many parts in the kit. As he did so, he imagined sawing his pet cat in half and putting it back together to the amazement of his friends and family. He took the many fake coins, trick cards, and rope pieces of varying length on the kitchen table and imagined pulling rabbits out of his hat and turning them into pigeons with a mysterious puff of smoke. As Jacob continued pulling plastic thumbs, foam balls, and giant playing cards out of the magic kit, a commercial on the TV caught his attention. “Hey kids! Have you ever wanted to go to space? Experience what it’s like to be an astronaut? Do you want to explore the universe? Well, now you can.” As the commercial continued playing, Jacob walked away from the magic kit on the kitchen table and stared at the TV screen longingly. “For only $195 you can go to space camp and live life like an astronaut for a whole weekend. Enroll now for a once in a life time experience.” Jacob’s cry rang throughout the house as he yelled, “MOM!” He now knew what his true purpose in life was.
How they grow?

How does a butterfly grow? It starts out as a tiny egg. It becomes a caterpillar. It eats lots of leaves. It grows and grows. Then it goes inside a cocoon. At last, it comes out. It’s a butterfly!

How does a frog grow? It starts out as a tiny egg in the water. The egg grows into a tadpole. It keeps changing. It eats tiny plants. It grows and grows. At last, it hops out of the pond. It’s a frog!

How does a flower grow? It starts out as a seed. Sun and rain help the seed grow. Roots grow into the ground. The plant grows and grows. At last, a bud opens. It’s a flower!

Now you know how they grow!
Bobby's Big Birthday Party
When Bobby turned six, his mom and dad had a birthday party for him. Twenty of his closest friends joined in the party. Everyone wore birthday hats and had birthday cake. The birthday cake was colored blue and white, which are Bobby's favorite colors. 6 huge candles were on top of the cake.
As the day went on, the children played kickball in the back yard. Bobby played first base, Sally played outfield, and Bobby's dad was the pitcher.
At the end of the party, Bobby asked his parents if he could have next year's birthday at the zoo. His parents agreed and everyone cheered.
Mikey Mails It
“Mikey, I have some letters for you to mail,” Mom called.
“Coming, Mom!” Mikey put down his book and went downstairs.
“Make sure these all go inside the mailbox,” Mom reminded him. Their street
had a blue mailbox on the corner just two blocks away.
“I will, Mom.” He headed down the street. It was a little windy. When he got to Evan’s driveway, he saw his friend bouncing a basketball. Mikey put down the mail and started playing with his friend. Suddenly three envelopes flew by, caught by the wind.
“Yikes!” Mikey and Even scrambled to catch the letters. Mikey counted to make sure he had them all. Then he ran down to the mailbox and mailed them before he forgot again.
The next day, Mom came into Mikey’s bedroom.
“Would you take this to Mrs. Smith’s house?” she asked, holding up a big yellow envelope. “It’s the money from the bake sale. I need you to go straight there and make sure you give it to Mrs. Smith.”
Mikey felt grown-up as he marched down the sidewalk with the envelope under his arm.
At the end of the block, his friend Emily came around the corner. She had a bouncy black puppy on a leash. “We have a new dog!” Emily exclaimed. The cute little puppy jumped up against Mikey’s legs.
“Wow!” Mikey giggled as the furry little dog nudged him with its nose. “I think he likes me.”
“Yes, he does,” Emily agreed. “Do you want to walk him?”
“Sure! Mikey was about to take the leash, when he saw the mailbox up ahead. “Oh, wait. First, I have to mail this for my mom.” Mikey ran up to the mailbox, opened it, and tossed the yellow envelope inside. Just as he heard the envelope drop down inside, he remembered that the yellow envelope wasn’t mail. It was the money from the bake sale. He had thrown the money in the mailbox! Mikey tried to see into the mailbox, but it was completely dark.
“What’s the matter?” Emily ran up, the puppy barking at the excitement.
He told her his mistake, and her eyes opened wide.
“Maybe you can reach it,” Emily suggested. Emily held the mailbox door open while Mikey stood on his tiptoes and tried to reach into the mailbox
as far as his arm would go.
“What’s going on, kids?” Mikey and Emily both turned around. Two kids and an excited puppy stared up at a very tall policeman. The policeman looked very serious. Mikey couldn’t help it. He started to cry. “I mailed the money,” he sobbed. “It was an accident!”
After Mikey had sniffled out the whole story, the officer walked Mikey home. Mom was surprised to see a policeman at the door.
Once Mom called the Post Office, things turned out well. A mailman came, found the yellow envelope and gave it back to Mikey’s mom.
“Next time,” Mikey promised, “I’ll finish my job before I stop to play!”
Going to the Library

The library is a great place to visit for help with school work, and for fun. You can go to your library, and there will always be someone there to help you find what you want. That someone is a librarian.
You can ask your librarian to help you find books about any subject that interests you. Libraries have books about everything from airplanes to zebras. If you like to read fiction, your librarian can suggest adventure books, fantasy books and much more.
If you are having a hard time finding an answer to a question, ask your librarian to help you find the answer. Your librarian can help you locate information in magazines and newspaper articles, and on the computer.
Libraries are also a great place to go if you want a quiet place to read or study. They have areas with cozy chairs where you can curl up and read a book. They also have tables and chairs where you can work on school reports.
Don’t forget to visit your library, and remember to thank your librarian her help.
Pretty Fish
“Look, mom! See what a pretty fish! It is a little trout,” said John to his mother.
John’s mother asked, “Where did you get it, John?”
“Frank caught it in the brook. I went to the brook to splash in the water and I saw this little fish. Then I told Frank about the fish, and he ran to get his fishing rod. He put the rod into the water and caught the fish, and I put it into this bucket.”
“Well, what will you do with it?” asked John’s mother. “I will keep it, mom,” replied John.
“But, my boy, it will not live in that bucket. You should put it back into the brook,” replied his mother.
John frowned. “I wish I could keep it. It is so pretty! May I put it into the pond?”
“No, John,” said his Mom. “You must put it into the brook. A trout will not live in the warm pond. The trout needs to go back to its home: the clear, cold brook.”
Fay’s dad got a new job. They moved to a new house in a new town. Fay likes the new house. She thinks it is nice. Her room has a window that looks out on the back yard. The bed and dresser from her old house are in her new room. All of her toys are in her new room, too. She likes her new room. She hopes she will like her new school.
Anna and Her Basketball Adventure
A group of teenage boys was playing basketball on the court at the park. The basketball court didn’t have a fence around it. If one of the boys missed the basket, someone had to catch the basketball quickly so it wouldn’t bounce too far away.
One of the boys was showing off, and he tossed the ball with all of his strength from the one end of the court toward the basket on the other end. The ball was flying like a rocket over the heads of all of the other boys. Then it kept right on flying. It flew straight over the basket and out into the field.
Anna was sitting at the end of the field near the pond watching the ducks swim. She heard some yelling and turned to see a big orange object headed her way. The yelling was coming from the teenage boys.
“Stop the ball,” one of them shouted.
The ball landed a few feet away from her. It started rolling and was heading right for the pond. The ducks saw it nearing and started flapping their wings wildly in fear.
Anna saved the ducks and the ball. She threw her arms out to stop the ball just as it was about to splash into the water.
“Bring it over here,” called one of the boys.
Anna shyly walked the ball over to the court. She was only in grade school and older kids made her nervous. They ended up being very nice though.
“Thanks kiddo,” they all said at once. “Can I try a shot?” Anna asked the boys.
The boys said, “Sure,” but they all chuckled because Anna was so much younger and shorter than them. They didn’t think she would be able to toss the ball even halfway to the basket.
Anna took the ball and stood at the free throw line. She concentrated hard and focused on the basket. Then she gave it her best shot. The boys watched with amazement as the ball whooshed straight into the basket. Anna smiled as the boys all cheered loudly for her.
Many people use the words cyborg and android interchangeably, but these words have different meanings. Both refer to beings powered by robotics, but an android is powered entirely by machinery. Cyborgs are partly powered by a living organism. They also look different. Androids may be completely mechanical, but they are designed to look like humans. They may have synthetic skin, hair, and other human-like features. Cyborgs are usually designed in a way that accents their robotic modifications. A cyborg's mechanically enhanced eye may cast a red light or have a chrome plate surrounding it, for instance. So you see, though the terms cyborg and android seem similar, they refer to different things.

Toby the Clown had a happy face painted over his frown. When he had first joined the circus, he loved the thrill of performing, but now his heart wasn't in it. That made him sad. He went to see Zobar the Mighty, who always cheered him up. Zobar was tearing up phone books. Toby the Clown told him how he felt. Zobar shrugged and said, "The thing about a job is that you don't have to like it. You just have to do it." This response did not improve Toby's mood.

Every day after work Paul took his muddy boots off on the steps of the front porch. Alice would have a fit if the boots made it so far as the welcome mat. He then took off his dusty overalls and threw them into a plastic garbage bag; Alice left a new garbage bag tied to the porch railing for him every morning. On his way in the house, he dropped the garbage bag off at the washing machine and went straight up the stairs to the shower as he was instructed. He would eat dinner with her after he was “presentable,” as Alice had often said.
When one hears the term "reality" applied to a show, one might expect that the events portrayed occurred naturally or, at the least, were not scripted. This is not always the case. Many reality shows occur in unreal environments, like rented mansions occupied by film crews. Such living environments do not reflect what most people understand to be "reality." Worse, there have been accusations that events not captured on film were later restaged by producers. Worse still, some involved in the production of "reality" television claim that the participants were urged to act out story lines premeditated by producers. With such accusations floating around, it's no wonder many people take reality TV to be about as real as the sitcom.
Rock music was playing through the speakers at the gas station. John jumped out the window of his yellow Jeep without opening the door. As he pumped gas into the Jeep, he danced to the rock music. A girl with blonde hair was walking past. She said, "Wow, partner, you can really move." John tipped his hat to her and winked, and then he continued his performance. John climbed onto the hood of his Jeep and began stomping, shaking his hips, and clapping. Gas overflowed from the tank of the Jeep and spilled onto the ground. John continued to strut his stuff.
Nights of the Pufflings
Halla lives on the island of Heimaey. She searches the sky every day. As she watches from high on a cliff overlooking the sea, she spots her first puffin of the season.
She whispers to herself “Lundi,” which means “puffin” in Icelandic.
Soon the sky is speckled with them—puffins, puffins everywhere. They are returning from their winter at sea, returning to Halla’s island and the nearby uninhabited islands to lay eggs and raise puffin chicks. These “clowns of the sea” return to the same burrows year after year. It’s the only time they come ashore.
Halla and her friends climb over the cliffs to watch the birds. They see pairs tap-tap-tap their beaks together. Each pair they see will soon tend an egg deep inside the cliffs. When the puffin eggs have hatched, the parents will bring fish home to feed their chicks.
Each chick will grow into a young puffling. The nights of the pufflings will come when each puffling takes its first flight. Although the nights of the pufflings are still long weeks away, Halla thinks about getting some cardboard boxes ready.
All summer long the adult puffins fish and tend to their chicks. By August, flowers blanket the burrows. With the flowers in full bloom, Halla knows that the wait for the nights of the pufflings is over.
The hidden chicks have grown into young pufflings. Now it’s time for Halla and her friends to get out their boxes and torches for the nights of the pufflings. Starting tonight, and for the next two weeks, the pufflings will be leaving for their winter at sea.
In the darkness of the night, the pufflings leave their burrows for their first flight. It’s a short, wing-flapping trip from the high cliffs. Most of the birds splash-land safely in the sea below. But some get confused by the village
lights – perhaps they think the lights are moonbeams reflecting on the water. Hundreds of the pufflings crash-land in the village every night. Unable to take off from the flat ground, they run around and try to hide.
Halla and her friends will spend each night searching for stranded pufflings that haven’t made it to the water. But the village cats and dogs will be searching, too. Even if the cats and dogs don’t get them, the pufflings might get run over by cars or trucks. The children must find the stray pufflings first. By ten o’clock the streets of Heimaey are alive with roaming children.
Halla and her friends race to rescue the pufflings. Armed with torches, they wander through the village, searching dark places. Halla spots a puffling. She races after it, grabs it, and puts it safely in a cardboard box.
For two weeks all the children of Heimaey sleep late in the day so they can stay out at night. They rescue thousands of pufflings.
Every night Halla and her friends take the rescued pufflings home. The next day, with the boxes full of pufflings, Halla and her friends go down to the beach.
It’s time to set the pufflings free. Halla releases one first. She holds it up so that it
will get used to flapping its wings. Then, holding the puffling snugly in her hands, she swings it up in the air and launches it out over the water beyond the surf. The puffling flutters just a short distance before splash-landing safely.
Day after day Halla’s pufflings paddle away, until the nights of the pufflings are over for the year. As she watches the last of the pufflings and adult puffins leave for their winter at sea, Halla bids them farewell until next spring. She wishes them a safe journey as she calls out, “Goodbye, goodbye.”
Brave Charlotte
Charlotte was different from all the other sheep right from the start. When all the other lambs just stood shyly by their mothers, Charlotte was leaping around, ready for adventure.
Charlotte lived with all the other sheep on a hillside far from the farm. They had a shepherd to look after them and he had an old dog named Jack. Jack tried to keep Charlotte under control, but she wasn’t scared of him.
One time, Charlotte jumped over the side of a riverbank and went for a swim in the fast-running stream.
“Tut, tut,” said the older sheep, shaking their heads.
What would they say if they knew that at night Charlotte secretly roamed through the countryside?
When all the other sheep were sleeping, she would slip away to her special place and gaze at the moon. Even Jack didn’t notice. But he didn’t have very good ears these days.
One day something terrible happened. The shepherd fell over and broke his leg. Jack barked and circled around him, but that didn’t help one bit. The shepherd lay in the grass, not knowing what to do.
“Oh dear, oh dear,” said the older sheep. “Somebody must go to the farmer’s house in the valley and get help.”
“Jack should go. He is the only one who knows the way.”
“But it is too far. He hardly manages with the herd these days.”
“Yes, that’s true,” said the others, shaking their heads in despair.
Then Charlotte said, “I’ll do it. I’ll go.”
“Charlotte?” muttered the older sheep.
“Out of the question! A sheep has never gone to the valley alone.”
The older sheep were beside themselves with worry. But Charlotte couldn’t hear them. She had already left to find the right way to the valley.
She bounded over fields, through the stream, and over the mountain.
When Charlotte reached the busy road, it was the middle of the night. She stood and watched the traffic. A truck driver noticed Charlotte and stopped in the road. “Going to the valley?” he asked. Charlotte nodded.
It was so nice to speed along in the truck that Charlotte was almost sorry when they reached the farmer’s house.
The farmer was asleep when Charlotte tapped on his window with her nose.
“It’s Charlotte,” said the farmer, “and she is all alone. Something must be wrong.”
Charlotte and the farmer drove on the tractor to find the other sheep. When they arrived, the poor shepherd was still lying in the grass. The farmer took him to the hospital right away.
The shepherd had his leg in a cast for six weeks before he could go back to the sheep. When he returned, he gave Charlotte a big smile. From then on, Charlotte was free to roam as she pleased.
Before you put on that skeleton costume and rove door-to-door pandering for candy, take a minute to reflect on this tradition. Halloween is believed to have come from an ancient Celtic festival dating back some 2,000 years. November 1st was the Celtic New Year and marked the end of summer to the Celts. They celebrated on its eve by wearing costumes made of animal skins and dancing around bon fires. Over the next two millennia, this primitive celebration grew to be the candy fueled costume ball that we know today.
Time travel is exhausting. It took me 200 million years to realize that. Well, actually it only took me a few seconds, but I first realized it about 200 million years ago. That was the first time that I travelled through time. "Try it!" said the mad scientist. "History needs you," he told me. I went with my gut.
Rudy took a bite of the sandwich. Even though he did not like eggs, he knew that eating it would make Marissa happy. It did. Marissa was pleased as punch to see Rudy enjoying the sandwich that she had made for him. "Do you like it?" Marissa asked excitedly. Rudy lied with a big fake smile, "Yup! Eggs are my favorite. This is so good." Nothing could have made Marissa happier.
Palaces are known for their beauty and splendor, but they offer little protection against attacks. It is easy to defend a fortress, but fortresses are not designed with the comfort of a king or queen in mind. When it comes to structures that are both majestic and well- fortified, the classic European castle is the pinnacle of design. Across the ages castles changed, developed, and eventually fell out of use, but they still command the fascination of our culture.
Castles were originally built in England by Norman invaders in 1066. As William the Conqueror advanced through England, he fortified key positions to secure the land he had taken. The castles he built allowed the Norman lords to retreat to safety when threatened by English rebellion. Castles also served as bases of operation for offensive attacks. Troops were summoned to, organized around, and deployed from castles. In this way castles served both offensive and defensive roles in military operations.
Not limited to military purposes, castles also served as offices from which the lord would administer control over his fiefdom. That is to say, the lord of the land would hold court in his castle. Those that were socially beneath the lord would come to report the affairs of the lands that they governed and pay tribute to the lord. They would address disputes, handle business, feast, and enjoy festivities. In this way castles served as important social centers in medieval England. Castles also served as symbols of power. Built on prominent sites overlooking the surrounding areas, castles constantly loomed in the background of many peasants’ lives and served as a daily reminder of the lord’s strength.
The first castles constructed in England were made from earth and timber. Those who constructed them took advantage of natural features, such as hills and rivers, to increase defenses. Since these castles were constructed from wood, they were highly susceptible to attacks by fire. Wooden castles were gradually replaced by stone, which greatly increased the strength of these fortifications; however, being made from stone did not make these castles entirely fireproof. Attackers could hurl flaming objects into the castle through the windows or ignite the wooden doors. This led to moving the windows and entrances off of the ground floor and up to the first floor to make them more difficult to access.
As the nobility accumulated wealth, England became increasingly attractive to those who sought to plunder. Raids by Vikings and other marauders increased in regularity. In response to these attacks, castle defenses were updated and improved. Arrow-slits were added. These were small holes in the castle, large enough for an arrow to fit through, which allowed defenders to fire from nearly invulnerable positions. Towers were built from which defenders could provide flanking fire. These towers were connected to the castle by wooden bridges, so that if one tower fell, the rest of the castle was still easy to defend. Multiple rings of castle walls were constructed, so that even if attackers made it past one wall, they would be caught on a killing ground between inner and outer walls. Advances such as these greatly increased the defense of castles.
The demise of castles can ultimately be attributed to gunpowder. Gunpowder was first introduced to Europe during the 14th century, but the first gunpowder weapons were unreliable, inaccurate, and weak by later standards. During the 15th century, artillery became powerful enough to break through stone walls. This greatly undermined the military role of castles. Castles were then replaced by artillery forts that had no role in civil administration, and country houses that were indefensible. Though castles no longer serve their original purposes, remaining castles receive millions of visitors each year from those who wish to experience these majestic vestiges of a time long passed.
My grandma may not look very strong, but with the help of hydraulic power, she can stop a car with her foot. How does hydraulic power work? First, fluid is rapidly released into a chamber through a valve. As the fluid collects, the valve is slammed shut. This causes a pressure spike, but since the chamber is sealed, the pressure has nowhere to go. The hydraulic mechanism channels the pressure and provides great power. And that’s how, with the help of hydraulics, my grandma can stop a speeding car with one foot.
Amusement Park Problem
The smell of popcorn was in the air. I could hear kids laughing and screaming. People were everywhere! The breeze felt warm on my skin. It was a perfect day at the amusement park.
My family and I wandered around the park, getting snacks and going on rides. I loved almost all types of rides! I loved to go fast and to spin around, to go down hills and to get splashed. The only rides I didn’t like were rides that turn you upside-down. My little brother, Ben, didn’t like those either, but my older sister, Laura, loved them. When we finally were near a ride that went upside-down, she started asking me to go with her. I told her I don’t like those rides, but she kept asking. Then she started whining because she didn’t want to go alone. I was feeling sympathy for her, so I started thinking that maybe I should go with her, even though I really don’t like to go upside-down. I looked to my parents for help.
“Matt, you are allowed to stand up for yourself. If something makes you feel really uncomfortable, you can tell people ‘no.’ It’s OK to tell Laura that you love her, but that you can’t go with her because going upside- down makes you uncomfortable. Be strong but kind when you tell her, so that she knows you’re serious,” Mom said.
“I don’t want to make Laura mad or sad, though,” I replied to Mom, “and I don’t want her to think I’m being mean.”
“There’s a difference between being aggressive and being assertive. You’re not saying ‘no’ to be mean to Laura or to hurt her feelings, you’re just listening to your own feelings to make sure you stay safe. It’s fine to tell her no for this,” Mom answered. “The same goes for Laura. If you ask her to arm wrestle and she doesn’t feel comfortable, she’s allowed to say ‘no,’ too. We are all allowed to stand up for ourselves to make sure we stay safe. Does that make sense?”
“Yes, thanks Mom,” I said. I told Laura that I love her and like to do things with her, but that I wasn’t comfortable going on upside-down rides today because they scare me. She was sad, but went on the ride by herself and was really happy when it was over. We had a great rest of the day at the amusement park!
Little Mouse Makes a Big Mistake
Mouse and Lion are friends. They live in the African grasslands. Lion likes to sleep under a shade tree for most of the day. It is very hot in the grasslands. Every day, Mouse runs far and wide through the grasslands. He likes to know everything that is going on. In the evening, Mouse comes back and tells Lion all the news. After the sun goes down and the air gets cooler, Lion sometimes decides to go for a run. He lowers his huge head and invites Mouse to hop up. Mouse hops up, and then hangs on for dear life.
During the day, while Lion is sleeping, Mouse checks on all the animals. He likes to watch the zebras as they graze on the grass, swishing their tails. He likes to watch the hippos being lazy in the river. He likes to watch the giraffes eating the tender leaves from the tops of the trees. Most of all he likes to watch the elephants. The baby elephants play in the river near the hippos. They use their trunks to spray each other with water. The mother elephants watch the babies carefully, and call them to come out of the water if there is any danger.
Mouse keeps himself well hidden when he is watching the elephants, because everyone knows that elephants are afraid of mice. But one day mouse made a mistake. He was so interested watching the baby elephants play that he forgot to keep himself hidden. One of the mother elephants saw Mouse. She reared up on her back legs and lifted her trunk in a mighty trumpeting roar. The babies ran to their mothers, and the elephants began to run. Dust was thick in the air as they ran, and the ground shook.
“Oh no!” thought Mouse. “I have scared them all away! They may never come back!” And he ran to find his friend, Lion.
“Lion, Lion!” Mouse cried. “I have scared the elephants, and they are running away. What can I do?”
Lion lowered his huge head and told Mouse to hop up. Mouse hopped up and then held on for dear life. Mouse told Lion which way to go, and Lion ran fast. First, Lion saw the dust in the air. Then he saw the elephants running. He circled around them, far to their right. He passed them, and kept running ahead of them. He jumped up on a big rock and turned to face the elephants as they ran toward him. Then he roared.
It was a mighty roar. It was louder even that the mother elephant’s roar. It shook the ground. Mouse hung on for dear life, and squeaked. He hid in Lion’s fur. The elephants slowed down, and then they stopped. They stopped right in front of Lion.
“Elephants!” Lion shouted. “There is no danger! You have my word. Go back to your home.”
Slowly, the elephants began to turn around. They headed back to their home.
Lion lay down on the rock and stretched himself out. It was hot, and he was tired. Mouse hopped down and sat beside him.
“For such a little mouse,” Lion said, “you certainly caused a big problem.”
Luca’s grandpa lives on a farm. His grandpa has a big garden, and many animals. When Luca was little, he was afraid of the chickens. When he helped his grandpa feed the chickens, the chickens chased him, crying, “Cluck, cluck, cluck!” But his grandpa showed him how to shoo the chickens away with his hand, saying, “Shoo chicks, shoo chicks!” Luca still doesn’t like the chickens much, but he isn’t afraid of them now. He feels very grown up.
Guitar or Ballet

Emma loves to listen to her brother Jake play his guitar. He is 15 years old and has been playing since he was 5 years old. He practices every day, and he is really good. He plays country music and rock and roll.
Emma likes the country songs best. She really likes watching Jake strum the chords and hearing the country sounds that he creates. Emma wants to take lessons so she can play as well as Jake does. “Mom, can I take guitar lessons?” Emma asks.
Her mom replies, “It takes a lot of hard work to play the songs that Jake plays; are you sure you have enough time to put into practicing?”
Thinking about all of her favorite activities, Emma isn’t sure. She loves her ballet classes, her art classes and her chess club. Emma realizes that if she wants to play guitar, she will probably have to give up another activity to make time for practicing. She does not know which activity she would give up because they all mean so much to her.
Emma decides that she will just keep enjoying her brother’s guitar playing for now.
The Night Artist
Macy tiptoed through the cabin as quiet as a mouse. She didn’t want to wake anyone up. She silently got dressed, picked up her sketch pad and slipped outside.
It was cooler than she expected. And quieter. And darker. It was hard to even see the trees in front of the cabin, which just looked like shadows. Macy crept along the porch to the bench and sat down quietly.
Everything seemed a bit spooky, and Macy felt a little nervous. She wasn’t used to being outside at night, alone in the dark. Macy thought about going back inside, but she decided not to. Her dad had told her that many wild animals only come out at night, and she wanted to see them. She wanted to see the animals and sketch them.
Macy waited in the quiet of the night. She could hear the wind softly rustling the leaves in the trees. An owl hooted in the distance. After a while she could see better. Up in the sky a full moon shone down at her, and she could see thousands of stars. The owl hooted again. Macy liked the owl sound, and she started to relax more. She started to sketch the moon.
After a little while, Macy heard a rustling in the bushes. She could feel the excitement rise in her, as well as a little fear. She reminded herself to be calm and not run if it was a bear.
It wasn’t a bear. A beautiful doe stepped out of shadows and into the light of the full moon. The doe was only about 20 feet away. Macy gasped. She had never been this close to a wild animal before.
“You’re so beautiful,” she whispered.
The deer’s head spun and stared at Macy. The deer stood perfectly still. Macy sat perfectly still. The deer stared at Macy. Macy stared at the deer. Finally, the deer decided that Macy wasn’t dangerous and started to eat the grass.
Macy very carefully and slowly picked up her pad and started to sketch the deer. She drew the deer’s long neck and legs. She drew the spots on the doe’s tan and white fur. She drew the deer’s dark eyes and big ears.
A couple of times the deer looked up at Macy. Each time, Macy stopped drawing and sat perfectly still. She didn’t want to scare the deer away. After a few seconds the deer always went back to eating grass.
Just as Macy was finishing her sketch, the doe silently slipped away into the bushes.
Macy picked up her pad and went back inside the cabin. Everyone else was still sleeping. Macy knew she should go to sleep, but she was too excited. She looked at her sketch. She felt very special. She had truly connected with nature.
Saturday with Grandpa

Saturday is our day to clean, but Grandpa turns work into fun. We like to sing when we dust. We like to dance when we mop. We clean the car together. We do the wash together. We both wear our caps. When we are done, we hurry to the store. We shop for food. Grandpa lets me pick the fruits that I like best. We carry the food home. Grandpa tells stories while we walk. At night, our work is done. Friends come over. We cook dinner. We sing and dance. Saturday is our day to clean, but Grandpa turns work into fun!
Martin the Monkey
Martin The Monkey lives in an oak tree at Cragmore Park in Bananaville. He works for the Banana telephone company. He is the best employee they have because he can climb the telephone poles twice as fast as everyone else.
On Saturdays, Martin pitches for the Cragmore Craters Baseball team. The Caters are a semiprofessional team. Martin has become extremely famous for what he calls his "Primate Pitch." The "Primate Pitch" is thrown straight up. The pitch then comes straight down and travels directly over home plate. The pitches travels at over one hundred miles per hour.
On Wednesday nights, Martin takes painting lessons with Sarah Able. She is a famous oil painter who lives in the same town as Martin. Martin is one of the only artists in the area that paints with his tail.
The Hottest Day Ever
I woke up one August morning in a warm sweat. I ran to the refrigerator to get a cold drink, but the refrigerator was broken and all the drinks were as hot as me. I walked over to my electric fan, but it wasn't working either. I then turned on the television and finally realized that the electricity in my house was out.
Later that day, I went to the pool to cool off.
I dived right in! I swam eight laps before I tired out. My friend Jeremy then bought me an ice cream cone. I got a vanilla ice cream cone with rainbow sprinkles.
Even though it was really hot, I did have a lot of fun.
What a Life!

Much of the information we have today about chimpanzees comes from the groundbreaking, long-term research of the great conservationist, Jane Goodall.

Jane Goodall was born in London, England, on April 3, 1934. On her second birthday, her father gave her a toy chimpanzee named Jubilee. Jubilee was named after a baby chimp in the London Zoo, and seemed to foretell the course Jane’s life would take. To this day, Jubilee sits in a chair in Jane’s London home. From an early age, Jane was fascinated by animals and animal stories. By the age of 10, she was talking about going to Africa to live among the animals there. At the time, in the early 1940s, this was a radical idea because women did not go to Africa by themselves.

As a young woman, Jane finished school in London, attended secretarial school, and then worked for a documentary filmmaker for a while. When a school friend invited her to visit Kenya, she worked as a waitress until she had earned the fare to travel there by boat. She was 23 years old.

Once in Kenya, she met Dr. Louis Leakey, a famous paleontologist and anthropologist. He was impressed with her thorough knowledge of Africa and its wildlife, and hired her to assist him and his wife on a fossil-hunting expedition to Olduvai Gorge. Dr. Leakey soon realized that Jane was the perfect person to complete a study he had been planning for some time. She expressed her interest in the idea of studying animals by living in the wild with them, rather than studying dead animals through paleontology.

Dr. Leakey and Jane began planning a study of a group of chimpanzees who were living on the shores of Lake Tanganyika in Kenya. At first, the British authorities would not approve their plan. At the time, they thought it was too dangerous for a woman to live in the wilds of Africa alone. But Jane’s mother, Vanne, agreed to join her so that she would not be alone. Finally, the authorities gave Jane the clearance she needed in order to go to Africa and begin her study

In July of 1960, Jane and her mother arrived at Gombe National Park in what was then called Tanganyika and is now called Tanzania. Jane faced many challenges as she began her work. The chimpanzees did not accept her right away, and it took months for them to get used to her presence in their territory. But she was very patient and remained focused on her goal. Little by little, she was able to enter their world.

At first, she was able to watch the chimpanzees only from a great distance, using binoculars. As time passed, she was able to move her observation point closer to them while still using camouflage. Eventually, she was able to sit among them, touching, patting, and even feeding them. It was an amazing accomplishment for Jane, and a breakthrough in the study of animals in the wild. Jane named all of the chimpanzees that she studied, stating in her journals that she felt they each had a unique personality.

One of the first significant observations that Jane made during the study was that chimpanzees make and use tools, much like humans do, to help them get food. It was previously thought that humans alone used tools. Also thanks to Jane’s research, we now know that chimps eat meat as well as plants and fruits. In many ways, she has helped us to see how chimpanzees and humans are similar. In doing so, she has made us more sympathetic toward these creatures, while helping us to better understand ourselves.

The study started by Jane Goodall in 1960 is now the longest field study of any animal species in their natural habitat. Research continues to this day in Gombe and is conducted by a team of trained Tanzanians.

Jane’s life has included much more than just her study of the chimps in Tanzania. She pursued a graduate degree while still conducting her study, receiving her Ph.D. from Cambridge University in 1965. In 1984, she received the J. Paul Getty Wildlife Conservation Prize for "helping millions of people understand the importance of wildlife conservation to life on this planet." She has been married twice: first to a photographer and then to the director of National Parks. She has one son.

Dr. Jane Goodall is now the world’s most renowned authority on chimpanzees, having studied their behavior for nearly 40 years. She has published many scientific articles, has written two books, and has won numerous awards for her groundbreaking work. The Jane Goodall Institute for Wildlife Research, Education, and Conservation was founded in 1977 in California but moved to the Washington, D.C., area in 1998. Its goal is to take the actions necessary to improve the environment for all living things.

Dr. Goodall now travels extensively, giving lectures, visiting zoos and chimp sanctuaries, and talking to young people involved in environmental education. She is truly a great conservationist and an amazing human being.
The Scientific Method
In ancient times, people tried to explain the world around them based on
what they saw. People in ancient times saw that the sun came up from one side of the earth, moved across the sky, and went down on the other side. Based on this observation, they believed that the sun travels around the earth. Going directly from observation to conclusion is called non-scientific thinking.
Here is an example of non-scientific thinking. Maybe you had a sick stomach, and ate a candy bar. An hour later, you observed that you felt much better. You might conclude that it was the candy bar that made you feel better. But there are other possible explanations for the observation. Maybe you had taken some medicine an hour earlier, and it took a while to work. Maybe enough time had passed, and you would have felt better without eating the candy bar. Non-scientific thinking happens all the time.
The scientific method is a way of thinking that helps you to avoid drawing incorrect conclusions. It helps you to avoid non-scientific thinking. It reminds you to treat your first conclusion as one of several possible conclusions. It reminds you to gather evidence to support your conclusion.
The five steps in the scientific method begin by questioning an observation, and end with a conclusion that is based on evidence. Step 1 in the scientific method is to ask a question about your observation, such as, “What makes a sick stomach feel better?” Step 2 is to state a possible answer to the question, or a hypothesis, such as, “A candy bar makes a sick stomach feel better.” Step 3 is to test the hypothesis. This can be done in many different ways. You could wait until you have a sick stomach again, eat a candy bar, and see what happens. You could ask a lot of people if eating a candy bar had ever made a sick stomach feel better. Figuring out how to test a hypothesis is what makes science challenging. Step 4 is to think about the findings—think about what happened when you tested the hypothesis. Step 5 is to draw a conclusion— and share it with the rest of the world.
Where Does Chocolate Come From?
Chocolate that we eat starts with cacao trees, also called cocoa trees. Cacao trees grow in a warm climate like Central and South America, Africa or parts of Asia. This tree produces a seed pod and cocoa beans are the seeds inside the pod. Cocoa beans eventually become chocolate.
At the chocolate factory, the beans are cleaned and then they are roasted for up to 2 hours in large rotating drums. The cocoa beans tumble in these drums like clothes in a clothes dryer. As they dry, the beans turn to a rich brown color.
After roasting, the shell of the cocoa bean is removed and the inside of the cocoa beans are then ground by heavy steel plates. This grinding process forms a chocolate liquid. When chocolate liquid is molded and cooled, the product is called unsweetened or bitter chocolate. Sometimes the chocolate liquid is made into dry cocoa powder. When cocoa is made, oil from the cocoa bean is pressed out and is known as cocoa butter.
Add sugar, cocoa butter, and vanilla flavoring to unsweetened chocolate and you have a chocolate candy. If you also add milk, the product is milk chocolate.
Next the milk chocolate mixture goes through heating and cooling cycles before being molded. Finally it is molded into milk chocolate candy bars or it is made into ten-pound blocks of chocolate that are sold to other candy bar manufacturers.
The Best Garden Helper
Many years ago I moved from the city to the country. One of the first things I did was to make large vegetable garden. It was hard work to change the grassy area to a fine garden. Imagine how much work it must have been for the early pioneer families to break the native sod by hand. I planted a full garden that first year – everything from root vegetables like carrots and beets to green beans, corn, tomatoes, zucchini, acorn squash, and melons. A root vegetable means that we eat the root of the plant that grows in the soil instead of the part that grows above ground.
My best friends Fritz and Heidi, both German shepherd dogs, loved to play out in the country. They enjoyed discovering all the new sniffs of rabbit trails and deer. A garden was something new to the dogs. At gardening time Heidi preferred to go exploring but Fritz would stay close to me and help.
Once in awhile I would find a cucumber at the side of the garden with dog teeth marks in it. Who do you think tasted the cucumbers? Since Heidi didn’t stay near the garden, it must have been Fritz!
One day Fritz went into the garden. He sniffed among the leaves of the melon vines growing close to the ground. Why, he had discovered ripe melons by their smell! Knowing when melons are just right to pick is very hard for humans. But Fritz knew the exact right time to pick each melon in the garden. From then on, Fritz was my best garden helper even if he did sometimes eat the cucumbers.
Grandmothers, Baby Chicks and Other Things
Teachers have moms and dads, brothers and sisters, and grandmothers and grandfathers just like you do too. It’s hard to think that once your teachers were kids like you are now. I’m your teacher and I’d like to tell you a little bit about when I was just five or six years old.
I lived with my Mom and Dad and little brother at a house in the country. My grandparents lived in a house close by and they had a huge yard. Their yard was big enough to be like a miniature farm. There was a cow that grazed grass in the pasture. There was a big garden that grew all kinds of vegetables for us to eat. There was even a grape arbor where large purple grapes hung in clusters.
For me, the most interesting place was the chicken house. There were eight hens in the chicken house that laid fresh eggs and one rooster that would crow every morning to wake us up. In the spring my grandmother would put some of the eggs in the warm incubator so they could hatch into baby chicks.
After the yellow baby chicks hatched, my grandmother would let me hold one as long as I held it very gently. “Don’t squeeze it!” she said. I couldn’t hold the baby chick very long or play with it all. A baby chick is fragile and I could hurt it if I wasn’t careful. Pretty soon after a couple of weeks the baby chick grew bigger and stronger and started to get feathers. Then the young chicken could live outside in the chicken house and I could visit it whenever I wanted.
Labrador Retrievers
Do you know which breed of dog is the most popular in the United States right now? If you guessed the Labrador retriever, you are correct! Perhaps someone in your family or one of your friends has a lab, as they are called, at home.
Labrador retrievers have three different possible colors for their fur: black, chocolate, and yellow, which is actually a light tan color. Labs are usually identified as black labs, chocolate labs and yellow labs.
Labrador retrievers are excellent family pets. These dogs like children and are sociable with strangers, making them a good neighborhood dog as well. Once trained, these dogs are obedient and don’t get easily excited. Labs are a rather large breed of dog. A Labrador retriever can be 2 feet tall at the shoulder and weigh 90 to 100 pounds. That’s why it is important that they are gentle with children because they are bigger than most children.
The name retriever comes from the fact that these dogs were originally bred to help hunters retrieve game in the field. If a hunter, for example, was hunting for ducks, the Labrador retriever would be able to swim in the water to fetch the duck for the hunter
Today most Labrador retrievers don’t go hunting but stay home and make wonderful family pets. Labrador retrievers love to play ball and Frisbee with the children in their families. Because labs are such patient and obedient dogs, they make good service dogs to help people who are blind or disabled.
A Bit About Peanut Butter
George Washington Carver lived from 1864 to 1943. At the beginning of the twentieth century he began America’s love affair with the peanut and peanut butter when he studied how to grow peanuts in the southern part of the United States. In 1916 he published a research booklet called How to Grow the Peanut and 105 Ways of Preparing It for Human Consumption, which included three recipes for peanut cookies.
The first peanut butter was interesting because the liquid peanut oil would float to the top of the peanut butter after a little while. If you wanted to make a peanut butter sandwich, for example, you first had to stir the peanut butter to mix the oil back in. In 1922 peanut butter as like we have today came onto the market. Joseph Rosefield invented a new method for making peanut butter. Using his method, the oil in the peanuts remained in the peanut butter. A non-separating Peter Pan peanut butter appeared on the American scene in 1928, followed by Skippy in 1933.
Peanut butter cookies arrived in the American kitchen around 1930. One special feature of home-made peanut butter cookies is the fork markings on the top. The first peanut butter cookie was called Peanut Butter Balls and included directions for flattening the cookie with a fork. Usually cookies that are made from a small ball of cookie dough flattened out all by themselves when they are baked. But peanut butter is heavy and does not flatten out like other ingredients found in cookies. Flattening the peanut butter cookie with a fork lets it bake evenly. Remember though that some kids are allergic to peanuts and peanut butter and cannot eat them.
The Family Piano
While there are lots of CD’s in the store or you can download music, there’s nothing like filling your home with your own music. If you have been thinking about learning how to play a musical instrument, think about playing the piano. A piano is one instrument that can easily be shared by the whole family, even to the point of playing duets. A duet is a piece of music that is sung or played by just two people.
Any member of the family can learn to play the piano. Many talented and famous musicians discovered a love of music sitting at the piano when they were very young. The piano is the perfect instrument for children. You don’t have to hold onto a piano like other instruments such a guitar, violin or trumpet. Think about how proud you will feel if you learn how to play the piano and can play a song for your parents or grandparents.
Pianos come in many styles. A baby grand piano is a large piano that is long and takes up a lot of space. If you don't have enough room for such a big piano, an upright piano fits nicely against a wall. Keyboards used by rock groups are like a modern electronic piano.
Holidays can be more special with the entire family gathered around the piano, singing or listening to music played by adults and children alike. You can easily share your love of music and the piano with your friends and neighbors. There are many ways in which to enjoy family and music when you how to play the piano.
Potholes for Ducks
Many birds in North America migrate every year. During the fall when the weather starts to get cold, migrating birds fly to the south, some as far
as South America in order to stay warm and find food in the winter. Then they fly back north again in the spring in order to raise a family of babies in
North America. Some birds stay in the United States in the warm weather but others like to go further north to Canada or even Alaska in the spring. Some birds stay in the same place all year long no matter what the weather. These are called non-migrating birds; they do not move from place to place.
Ducks and geese are called waterfowl because they like to live on the water and stay near water. Most ducks and geese migrate. Different kinds of ducks and geese, called different species, each prefer to stay in a different location. Just like you live in one city and other people live somewhere else, different birds migrate to the place that they like the best.
Many species of waterfowl like to make a nest and raise a family in the Prairie Pothole Region of Canada in the summer. To us who live in towns and cities, a pothole is a nuisance; a pothole is a hole in the road that should be fixed. A prairie pothole is a good thing. It is a small hole in the ground left when the glaciers from the Ice Age moved north again. These small holes fill with water and make lots of small ponds that are just the right size for ducks and geese to raise a family.
It’s important that we pay attention to preserving these potholes as wildlife habitat, a place for ducks and geese to live.
Skiing in the Desert?
Have you heard about the city called Dubai? It is located in the desert on the Arabian Gulf. Dubai is both a city and like a state in the United States. In Arabia, states are called emirates and emirates are ruled by princes. The prince of Dubai is determined to make Dubai a location that attracts tourists from all over the world. The prince is using the latest in modern technology to create spectacular sights and experiences for visitors to Dubai to enjoy.
Even though Dubai is in the desert, it has beautiful ocean beaches because it is located on the Arabian Gulf. Since Dubai is a desert country, the temperate there gets hotter than the warmest locations in the United States. Of course, it never snows when the weather is hot and Dubai is hot all year long, so there is no snow in Dubai. Instead the prince decided to create an indoor skiing slope!
Normal ski slopes are always built outdoors on the side of a snowy mountain. Can you imagine walking into a huge building large enough to contain a small mountain? Skiers ride a chairlift to get to the top of the indoor mountain just like at an outdoor ski slope. There are no windows so skiers don’t see the hot desert sands outdoors.
Dubai doesn’t have just one but two indoor ski slopes. The first is called Ski Dubai and the second is called Snowdome.
More than just a place for indoor skiing, the Snowdome is part of a larger development called Dubailand. Dubailand also contains a shopping mall, restaurants, hotels and winter activities for all ages.
Snowshoe Rabbits
Do you think that a snowshoe rabbit wears snowshoes? Do you know what snowshoes are? Perhaps you live in a warm area like Florida where it doesn’t snow. You would then never need to wear snowshoes. This elf is wearing snowshoes. Snowshoes look like tennis racquets that you put on your feet.
Snowshoes will keep you from sinking into deep snow and people wear snowshoes when they want to walk over snow where the snow hasn’t been plowed away, like in the woods.
Snowshoe rabbits are not really rabbits but are cousins of the rabbits called hares. Hares look so much like rabbits that people call hares rabbits. The name snowshoe hare and snowshoe rabbit mean the same animal. Perhaps you’ve heard about the very fast jackrabbits. Jackrabbits are another kind of hare too.
Baby rabbits are born blind and without any fur. They get vision and fur when they get a little older before they leave their nest. When they are born, baby hares can see and
already have fur. Hares have longer ears than rabbits and longer back legs so they run faster than rabbits.
Snowshoe rabbits live in places that have a cold winter. Just like leaves of trees turn color in the fall, snowshoe rabbits turn from brown to white during the winter so they can blend in and hide from predators. Snowshoe rabbits turn brown again in the spring. Can you find the snowshoe rabbit in this picture?
Types of Clouds
A cloud is made up of many tiny drops of water or ice crystals that are so small they can float. There are many sizes and shapes of clouds, and both the size and the shape of a cloud is constantly changing as it is moved around by wind high in the sky. There are four main types of clouds. Each has a distinctive shape, and each kind of cloud can predict a different kind of weather.
Cumulus clouds are puffy and can look like cotton candy or scoops of ice cream high in the air. They are often white, and appear when the weather is fair. But this kind of cloud
is made up of water droplets that will eventually turn to rain. As they fill up with more and more water droplets, they grow darker and darker. When cumulus clouds are very dark, it means that it will rain very soon.
Stratus clouds a long and flat, and they can cover the whole sky thickly, like a grey blanket. When stratus clouds lay close to the ground, they are called fog. Stratus clouds often appear before it rains or snows.
Nimbus clouds are very dark and always bring rain. They often signal that a bad storm is coming, and thunder and lightning often accompanies them. If you see nimbus clouds, you should seek shelter right away.
Cirrus clouds are the white and wispy clouds that you see moving very high across a blue sky. They looks like horse tails or a cotton ball that has been pulled into strands. They are so thin because they are made of ice particles instead of water droplets.
Types of Rocks
Rocks can be classified into two types: stratified or layered rocks and unstratified or unlayered rocks. Stratified rocks are also called sedimentary rocks. These two kinds of rock differ in form because of how they are formed.
In stratified rocks, as time passes, new layers of sediment are deposited on top of the layers of rock that are already there. Over time, sediment is slowly changed by pressure, heat, and chemical action into a new layer of rock. Sedimentary rocks can be separated fairly easily into layers. Sedimentary rocks are the kind of rocks in which you find fossils and shells.
Igneous and metamorphic rocks are unstratified. Igneous rocks are formed when lava from a volcanic eruption deep inside the earth cools. You will not find any fossils or shells in an igneous rock. Metamorphic rocks can be formed from either sedimentary or igneous rocks. This kind of rock is created when sedimentary or igneous rocks are subjected to enormous heat and pressure inside the earth, which causes them to be restructured into interlocking mosaics or crystals. Unstratified rock cannot be easily split into slabs.
Fossils
Fossils are the hardened remains of animals and vegetables found in rocks. They are usually found in stratified (also called layered or sedimentary) rocks. Whole skeletons as well as single bones or even footprints, or whole tree-trunks as well as single leaves, can be found embedded in rock layers, where an animal or plant died a very long time ago.
Fossils differ greatly in kind. Sometimes the entire shell or bone is changed into stone, losing all its animal substance, but retaining its old outline and its natural markings. Sometimes the fossil is just the hardened impression of the outside of a shell or leaf, which has dented its picture on soft clay, and has itself disappeared, while the soft clay has become rock, and the indented picture remains fixed for centuries. Sometimes the inside of a shell has gotten filled with mud, and the fossil has taken its exact shape and hardened, while the shell itself has vanished. Although there are many fossil remains of quadrupeds and other land animals, they are far outnumbered by fossils of seashells and sea animals.
Learning To Work
Young Abe Lincoln learned to help his father and mother as soon as he could, picking berries, dropping seeds and carrying water for the men to drink. The farm at Knob Creek seems to have been a little more fertile than the other two places on which his father had chosen to live.
Once while living in the White House, President Lincoln was asked if he could remember his "old Kentucky home." He replied with considerable feeling:
"I remember that old home very well. Our farm was composed of three fields. It lay in the valley, surrounded by high hills and deep gorges. Sometimes, when there came a big rain in the hills, the water would come down through the gorges and spread all over the farm. The last thing I remember of doing there was one Saturday afternoon; the other boys planted the corn in what we called the big field―it contained seven acres―and I dropped the pumpkin seed. I dropped two seeds in every other row and every other hill. The next Sunday morning there came a big rain in the hills―it did not rain a drop in the valley, but the water, coming through the gorges, washed the ground, corn, pumpkin seeds and all, clear off the field!"
HEDGEHOGS ARE WEIRD
One weird thing about hedgehogs is that they are known for being able to eat things that would harm or kill other animals. For instance, they will eat the wings of Spanish flies with no trouble, though doing so would cause pain in other animals. The hedgehog also seems to be untroubled by poison, for it fights with and is sometimes bitten by venomous snakes without being harmed.
Another weird thing about the hedgehog is that it is covered with bristles, like long, sharp sticks, which is used for protection. But these bristles are very elastic, and the hedgehog can also roll itself up into a ball. In such a state, hedgehogs sometimes throw themselves down steep places in order to from a particular spot, and are unhurt by the fall.
Hedgehogs are nocturnal animals. They eat insects, slugs, frogs, eggs, young birds in the nest, mice, fallen fruits, and the roots of vegetables. At one time, people were said to keep them as pets, and hedgehogs can supposedly be quite affectionate. Apparently they can also be useful. One man claimed that a hedgehog helped him out by getting rid of an infestation of black beetles which had gotten into his house by stowing away in his luggage when he had traveled to a tropical country. He had tried all kinds of things to kill the beetles, but nothing worked until he borrowed a hedgehog from a friend of his who kept one as a pet.
He made the hedgehog a bed in a hamper filled with hay, but the next morning, the hedgehog was gone. The man searched for it for days, but with no luck, though he knew it was alive, because it continued to return to drink from a saucer of milk which the man set out for it every day. The beetles and cockroaches were disappearing, but so were other things. Kitchen cloths, a silk handkerchief, and a cap went missing. All of these things were eventually found in the hiding place that the hedgehog had made under the man’s stove!
Teddy Roosevelt as a Boy
The instincts of the hunter must have been born in Theodore Roosevelt. His first gun was given to him when he was ten years of age, and for the time being his books and his studies were forgotten, and he devoted his whole time and attention to shooting at a target set up in the garden of the country home and in going out with the older folks after such small game as were to be found in that vicinity.
The horses on the place were his pets, and he knew the peculiarities of each as well as did the man who cared for them. Riding and driving came to him as naturally as breathing, and the fact that a steed was mettlesome did not daunt him.
"My father often drove four-in-hand," he has said. "I liked very much to go with him, and I liked to drive, too."
Theodore Roosevelt's schoolboy days were not far out of the ordinary. He studied hard, and if he failed in a lesson he did his best to make it up the next time. It is well said that there is no royal road to learning, and even a future President must study just as hard as his classmates if he wants to keep up with them. Sometimes he was absent from school on account of sickness, and then it was a sharp struggle to keep from dropping behind.
"In those days nobody expected Teddy Roosevelt to amount to a great deal," some one has said. "He was thin, pale, and delicate, and suffered with his eyes. But he pulled through, and when he took to athletics, it was wonderful how he got stronger." "I determined to be strong and well, and did everything to make myself so," Teddy Roosevelt said. "By the time I entered Harvard I was able to take part in whatever sports I liked."
By his intimate companions, and indeed by nearly everybody who knew him, he was called Teddy, and this nickname clung to him when he went forth into the great world to become a governor and a president. How the nickname came first into use is not known.
Since those schoolboy days Mr. Roosevelt has been asked this question: "What did you expect to be, or dream of being, when you were a boy?"
"I do not recollect that I dreamed at all or planned at all," was the answer. "I simply obeyed the injunction, 'Whatever thy hand findeth to do, do that with all thy might,' and so I took up what came along as it came."
Dinosaurs as Pets?
Ellie’s parents were having a party. Ellie’s mother was a famous scientist, and she introduced Ellie to another scientist she worked with.
“It’s nice to meet you, Ellie,” the woman said. “What do you want to be when you grow up?”
“I’m going to be a scientist too,” Ellie said.
“Really!” the woman exclaimed. “What kind of scientist?” “Part paleontologist, and part microbiologist,” Ellie said. The woman looked surprised. “That’s very specific,” she
said. “Exactly what kind of work are you going to do?” “I’m going to collect DNA from dinosaur bones,” Ellie
said. “Then I’m going to genetically modify the DNA and bring back the dinosaurs.”
“Bring back the dinosaurs!” the woman exclaimed. “Wouldn’t that be really dangerous?”
“My dinosaurs will not be dangerous,” Ellie explained, “because I am going to use the DNA from something nice like a Golden Retriever, so that my dinosaurs can be tamed. I am also going to make my dinosaurs really, really small. They won’t be any bigger than a Teacup Poodle,” Ellie said proudly. “Then people can keep them in terrariums as pets.”
The woman looked at Ellie’s mother, who said, “That’s my girl!”
Ellie nodded. “It’s a brilliant plan,” she said. “I’m definitely going to be famous and rich!”
Stan Lee
Stan Lee was born on December 28th in 1922 in New York City. His real last name was Lieber, and his parents had come to the U.S. from Romania in search of a better life. Part of Lieber’s childhood took place during the Great Depression, and Stan’s family, which included a younger brother named Larry, struggled to make ends meet.
Stan got a job as an office assistant for Timely Comics when he was just 17 years old. By the early 1940s, he had worked himself up to the position of Interim Editor. Around the same time, Lee also served in the Army during World War II. He served in the U.S. as a writer and illustrator.
By the early 1960s, Timely Comics had changed its name to Marvel Comics, and they were in competition with D.C. Comics, whose Justice League of America had become famous. Lee’s boss asked him to create a rival series for Marvel Comics. Lee was up for the challenge, but he wanted his superheroes to be different. Together with the artist Jack Kirby, Lee co-created The Fantastic Four. More now-famous Marvel characters followed including the Hulk, Spiderman, Doctor Strange, Daredevil, and the X-Men. According to Stan Lee, “a really great comic-book story is every bit as creative and important as a great story done in any other form of the media.”
WILD PONIES
On Assateague Island, on the Eastern Shore of the United States, there are two herds of wild ponies, which have been on the island for hundreds of years. A fence that runs along the Maryland/Virginia border separates the herds. The ponies are small, sturdy, and shaggy. They eat dune and marsh grasses and though they are on an island in the Atlantic Ocean, they are able to get plenty of fresh water from ponds.
The National Park Service is responsible for the ponies in Maryland, and the Chincoteague Volunteer Fire Company takes care of the ponies in Virginia. Because these wild ponies have babies every year, the herd is always growing; however, Assateague Island is only several miles across, and there is a limit to how many ponies the island’s ecosystem can support. To keep the number of ponies at 150, The Chincoteague Volunteer Fire Company hold a pony auction every year in July. In this way, ponies native to Assateague are able to find new homes.
It is believed that the original herd of ponies got on the island by surviving a shipwreck off the coast of Assateague. There is strong evidence to support this theory, as there are many shipwrecks along the mid-Atlantic coastline, and it was once common practice to transport horses by ships to the Colonies or South America.
New England Weather
There is a great variety about the New England weather that strangers admire―and regret. The weather is always doing something there; always attending strictly to business; always getting up new designs and trying them on the people to see how they will go. But it gets through more business in spring than in any other season. In the spring I have counted one hundred and thirty-six different kinds of weather within four and twenty hours. It was I who made the fame and fortune of the man who had that marvelous collection of weather on exhibition at the Centennial, which so astounded the foreigners. He was going to travel around the world and get specimens from all climes. I said, "Don't do it; just come to New England on a favorable spring day." I told him what we could do in the way of style, variety, and quantity. Well, he came, and he made his collection in four days. As to variety, he confessed that he got hundreds of kinds of weather that he had never heard of before. And as to quantity, after he had picked out and discarded all that was blemished in any way, he not only had weather enough, but weather to spare, weather to hire out, weather to sell, weather to deposit, weather to invest, and weather to give to the poor.
A Career in Graphic Design
Do you like to draw? Do you insist that a picture can tell as much of a story as words can? Do you love putting colors together to make a statement? Then you may enjoy a career in graphic design.
Graphic Design is a creative career that is all about conveying information visually. The main goal of every project is to make an idea easily and quickly understandable without using too many words. Graphic Designers create posters, billboards, packaging, logos, and all kinds of marketing materials. Their work involves selecting images, colors, typefaces, and developing layouts. You will find Graphic Designers working in some capacity in virtually every industry.
Most Graphic Designers have a natural talent for creating eye-catching materials, but there are also many skills which you can learn in school, like typography, color theory, and web design. Commonly used design software includes Adobe’s Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign. Also required is flexibility and a willingness to work with others, since most Graphic Designers are hired to realize someone else’s vision or idea.
What is Minecraft?
Minecraft is a video game in which players create their own worlds and experiences in a virtual land. Everything in Minecraft ― from the landscape to the animals to the people ― is created from cubes. Minecraft can be played on a computer, smartphone, tablet, X Box or Playstation. The game can be played alone, or with multiple players.
Minecraft made its first appearance in 2009, and quickly became one of the most popular video games in the world. One reason for its popularity may be that it is a game without rules. There are no instructions and no particular objective. In Minecraft, each player is free to build and explore in his or her own way. Players can explore existing fantasy worlds like Greek Mythology, Halloween, Chinese, etc. Play can take place in either “Creative Mode” or “Survival Mode.” In Creative Mode, resources are freely available, and the player does not face any threats. In Survival Mode, players must obtain tools and materials by harvesting a limited supply of natural resources, and they must also watch their backs, as they can be attacked by various creatures, primarily after nightfall.
Playing Minecraft can be an educational experience, since it helps children to develop problem-solving, planning, and organizational skills. Playing with others can improve a child’s ability to work as a team. Even schools are using Minecraft. For example, one school used Minecraft as a way for students to build a scale model of their school. Minecraft has also been used to teach kids both computer programming and mathematical skills.
What is Acupuncture?
Acupuncture is the practice of using thin needles inserted into the skin to stimulate specific point on the body. It is a way to reduce chronic pain without the use of medications, which can have unpleasant side effects. Acupuncture comes from Traditional Chinese Medicine, and has been around for more than 2,500 years. Over the past several decades, acupuncture has become more popular in the United States. Acupuncture is usually recommended in combination with other pain management techniques, like physical therapy, exercise, and reducing inflammation through a healthy diet.
Most people aren’t familiar with acupuncture. Because it uses needles, people often think that acupuncture will hurt. But actually, acupuncture treatments are fairly pain-free. Acupuncture is commonly used to treat muscle spasms and pain, chronic back problems and pain, headaches, neck pain, knee pain, allergies, digestive problems, and depression. People also often wonder if acupuncture is safe. The answer is yes, as long as it is performed by an experienced, well-trained acupuncturist who is using sterile needles.
What is the Public Domain?
When a writer or artist creates an original work, that
work is automatically protected by copyright. Copyright
means that only the person who has created the work, or someone that person assigns the copyright to, can print, publish, perform, film, or record the work.
                                             
The phrase public domain is used to describe works of art that are no longer protected by U.S. copyright laws. Anything that was published in the U.S. before 1923 is now in the public domain. Works can also enter the public domain if:
- the copyright has expired;
- the copyright owner does not follow the rules to renew the copyright;
- the copyright owner gives up the copyright and places the work in the public domain; or
- the type of work in question is not protected by copyright law.

When a work enters the public domain, it means that the public at large ― and not any one individual ― “owns” the work, and that it can be used by anyone, without having to get permission from the author or the publisher. Novels, stories, poems, photographs, illustrations, and other kinds of creative works can eventually pass into the public domain. Some classic works that are now available in the public domain include the novels of Mark Twain and Robert Louis Stevenson.
A Visit with Sue
“When do you think we’ll get there?” “How much longer?”
“I can’t wait to see Sue!” The kids on the bus were talking at the same time. Everyone was ready for their first visit to meet Sue.
The bus made its way through the crowded streets of Chicago and soon the class could see the water of Lake Michigan. The teacher reminded everyone that Lake Michigan is one of the five Great Lakes. By the time she finished the bus was parked at the Field Museum of Natural History. In a few minutes everyone would meet Sue for the first time.
Even though everyone wanted to run and meet Sue, they walked in a group like they were supposed to inside the museum. Quickly they spied Sue standing there right in the open space on the first floor. The class surrounded her but no one said hello.
Instead, kids began to chatter. “Wow, is Sue big!” “She’s so tall!” “How much does she weigh?” These questions didn’t hurt Sue’s feelings at all. You see, Sue is the name of the famous dinosaur skeleton at the Field Museum.
The class learned that Sue is the skeleton of a T-rex dinosaur, a Tyrannosaurus rex. The museum docent explained that Sue is 40 feet long from her nose to her tail and she is twelve feet tall at her hips. Scientists believe Sue was 28 years old when she died.
Sue was discovered in 1990 in South Dakota on the Cheyenne River Indian Reservation. Her skeleton was about 80% complete when it was found. She went on display at the museum in 2000.
After they learned about Sue, the class went to see the fossil remains of other dinosaurs displayed at the museum.
Juggler in Training
One night at supper Jennifer announced, “I want to learn how to juggle. I brought home a book from the library that shows me how to start juggling.
I need to make some balls out of rolled up socks to practice with. Is that okay, Mom?”
“Sure.” Mom replied. “But don’t practice in the apartment. You might damage something. Practice in the hallway but don’t bother anybody.”
The next day Jennifer turned some of her big brother’s white cotton socks inside themselves to make fluffy soft balls. Once out in the hallway, she tried the first lesson in the how to juggle book. It said to put the ball on her head, nod her head gently forward and catch the ball in her hands. She did that a few times, then tilted her head backwards and tried to catch the ball with her hands behind her back the way the book said.
“That was easy enough,” she said to herself. “I’ll try the next lesson.”
The next lesson seemed pretty simple too. Jennifer placed the soft sock in her right hand. She tossed it straight up higher than her head like the lesson said, clapped her hands once, but missed catching the ball with her left hand. She tried several times but only could catch the ball once in while. Discouraged, she went inside her apartment.
“Did you have fun?” her Mom asked.
“It was okay.” replied Jennifer. “But I didn’t do very well on the second lesson so I quit.”
“Well, it’s way too early to quit, Jennifer. Today was your first day. If you practice more tomorrow, I’ll bet you’ll figure it out. It takes time to learn something new.”
Tuttle the Turtle
Tuttle was snug inside his leathery egg. It was completely dark but he didn’t care because
he was warm and safe in a nest in the sand. His mother had left Tuttle and his
brothers and sisters hidden inside the nest. When she knew her eggs were safe
she returned to her place in the ocean. Tuttle and his family were sea turtles.
One day something inside Tuttle told him he was getting too big for his egg. It was time for Tuttle to hatch. It was time for all the baby turtles in the nest to hatch. It is safer to hatch and leave the nest at night. Many predators find baby turtles to be a tasty meal. Birds and mammals will eat baby turtles.
Meanwhile Tuttle worked hard to break open his egg shell. Birds have a brittle egg shell but turtles have a soft shell that is hard to open. It took some time for Tuttle to open his egg using his egg tooth but he worked hard and finally left his shell behind.
But remember, Tuttle’s mother had left her eggs buried about twenty inches deep in the sand. Tuttle and the other baby turtles had to dig their way out of the nest but one by one they emerged from the sand.
Tuttle didn’t have time to look around at the beach. Tuttle didn’t care about the sky or the stars. Instinct told him that his home was in the ocean. Tiny Tuttle wasn’t afraid of the big ocean waves that landed on the beach. He ran to the ocean as fast as he could along with dozens of his brothers and sisters who had just hatched too.
Tuttle already knew how to swim and how to hold his breath under water. He knew how to breathe while he was under the water too. Tuttle used his small flippers to swim out into the vast unknown ocean. Tuttle would never come back to land again but his sisters will some day lay their eggs on a sandy beach.
Seconds Count
“I’m just so excited about the 4-H show on Saturday!” Christy was on the phone with her best friend. “Trixie and I are all set for our very first competition barrel race.”
Trixie was Christie’s trained barrel racing horse, one of the best around Johnson County, Wyoming. Christy’s parents acquired Trixie from another local family whose daughter had gone off to college and was no longer eligible for 4-H events.
Friday night Christy started to get her outfit ready for the next day’s event. She pressed her long-sleeve Western shirt and jeans. She checked the snaps on the sleeves of her shirt. She didn’t want to be disqualified because her sleeves weren’t snapped. She got out her cowboy hat and boots and made sure they were clean and proper.
Saturday morning Christy got up early and scampered out to the barn. She wanted to groom Trixie so the horse would look her best too.
“Good morning Trixie,” Christy greeted her special horse. “Are you ready for our big race today?” Trixie nuzzled her as if to answer, yes indeed, she too was ready for the day’s race.
At the arena Christy found out that she and Trixie were the next to the last of the racing teams of horse and rider. The only contestant after them was last year’s 4-H champion.
When it was their turn Christy said, “Come on Trixie – let’s show everyone what we can do!” Off they raced at full speed around the complicated barrel course. Everyone cheered when Christy and Trixie galloped out of the arena. The master clock said their time was the fastest so far by just three seconds.
Next, last year’s champion rider and her horse came shooting into the arena at a full gallop. Christy held her breath and waited to see who would be that day’s champion.
The Aquarium
“Last Saturday my step-dad took us kids to the aquarium for a special treat,” Kevin reported to his science classmates. “It was a neat place to visit.”
Since it was class participation time, Carla asked, “Did you see any sharks?”
“Yup,” replied Kevin, “Lots of ferocious sharks with big jaws and rows of sharp teeth. It was great – there’s a way to walk under the shark tank so they swim over your head.”
“Explain about the difference between a salt water and fresh water habitat,” said Mr. Ramone, the science teacher.
“Well,” said Kevin, “Ocean creatures live in the salt water tanks and fish that come from rivers and lakes are in other fresh water tanks. There are even water snakes in both kinds of tanks.”
“And you know what?” continued Kevin, “You can tell how a fish eats by looking at its mouth. Fish that eat bugs on the surface have a mouth that opens upward. Fish that eat other fish by swimming up to them and swallowing them whole have a mouth in the middle of their face. Some fish that eat food from the bottom of the ocean or lake have a mouth like a vacuum cleaner.”
Tyrone spoke up, “We went to the aquarium last February. I liked the nurse sharks. They were in a shallow pool and you could put your hand in the water and touch them. That was neat!”
“Do you know that rays and sharks don’t have bones?” said Mr. Ramone. “Their skeletons are made from cartilage instead.”
The bell rang and science class was over for the day. A couple of the kids stopped and asked Mr. Ramone if the class could take a field trip to the aquarium at the end of the school year.
“Fraidy Cat” Grandma
“No question about it – I hate needles,” Grandma Jordan said emphatically. “I don’t like getting shots at all. And I don’t care what anybody says, a tetanus shot hurts.”
Cousins Eddie and Emily couldn’t believe their ears. Grandma Jordan was never afraid of
anything. Why, they had heard her stories of driving her old hot rod Dodge Charger, bright metallic blue with a white top, way back when. Her twenty year-old Mustang convertible with a 5-liter engine still sits in a protected spot in the garage, coming out for the Fourth of July parade every year.
They knew how Grandma learned how to fly an airplane and earned her private pilot’s license when she was 35 years old. She would fly by herself in a tiny airplane, not afraid of anything.
Sometimes Grandma went hiking in the remote parts of the Smokey Mountains, taking 5-mile trails all by herself. One time she saw a black bear but the bear was as surprised as she was and ran off. That probably was a smart bear.
“And what I hate more than shots is giving a blood sample for a test. Besides being stuck with a needle, I have to wait until the nurse has enough blood,” Grandma continued her tirade. “Once I even fainted and the nurse had to give me a whiff of ammonia to wake me up.”
All Eddie and Emily had said to start this discussion with Grandma was that they dreaded getting their immunizations before school started.
“So anyway, kids, I really dread getting shots too. But I always get what the doctor says I need, even that tetanus shot. So I won’t tell you getting shots is nothing but you just have to do what you have to do. Afterwards we can all go for ice cream cones.”
Teaching in 1776
Seventeen year-old Becky Robinson was nervous about her job interview. She had never been more than five miles from her home and here she was in the small village of Brookline, Massachusetts, twenty-four miles from her home. She was facing questioning from four local men, all more than twice her age, who were in charge of hiring a new schoolteacher for the community.
Mr. Alden asked her to read a passage from the Bible, one that had some complicated old names but she managed not to stumble on any of the words. Mr. Gordon provided her with paper and a quill to see how well she formed her letters in penmanship. Everyone knew how important good penmanship was to education.
The gentlemen conferred together for a few minutes, nodded in agreement an offered her the job. She would teach in Brookline for five months over the winter when the children were free from outdoor chores. She would be paid four dollars a month plus be given a place to live.
At the appointed time, Mistress Robinson, as everyone called her, arrived at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Bennett and their young daughter where she would live while teaching. She discovered that her unheated attic room was very cold and that Mrs. Bennett was not a good cook.
Her little schoolhouse wasn’t much better, with just a tiny fireplace. In the morning she taught the littlest kids the basics of the alphabet and beginning reading while the older students practiced penmanship and copied their lessons. Everyone concentrated on spelling after morning recess. After lunch was reading time and Bible lessons. There were no arithmetic lessons. In her diary Mistress Robinson wrote, “I will not be unhappy to leave Brookline. I hope to find a different school for next winter.”
Norman Rockwell – American Illustrator
It’s hard enough to be eight years old, be pale and skinny, and wear your grandfather’s old coat to school. It’s even harder when the other kids laugh at how you walk and call you “Mooney” because you wear thick glasses. And it’s harder still that your older brother Jarvis is a good athlete, with a natural talent for sports. No wonder that young Norman felt awkward and clumsy.
That’s how Norman felt about himself but, of course, his Dad loved him and was happy to spend time with him. The year was 1904 when little Norman was eight and with no radio, television or computers, his Dad would read to the family in the evening. His Dad read long complicated novels by the famous English author Charles Dickens.
Norman let his imagination flow with the stories. He could see the characters of the novels in his mind as he was engrossed in the stories. He took his imagination one step further – he began sketching what he imagined the characters looked like. He used simple tools, just an ordinary pencil and some paper.
Scrawny Norman with the coat that was too big and the thick glasses discovered that he was as good at drawing as his older brother was at sports. He already found what he was good at in life. In fact he said later on when he was an adult, “Jarvis could jump over three orange crates; George Dugan could wiggle his ears; I could draw.”
By the time Norman Rockwell was twelve years old he knew he wanted to draw. When he was in the eighth grade young Norman was drawing as much as he could. Fortunately his teacher supported him and encouraged him to make drawings to go with all his reports.
As an adult, Norman Rockwell drew hundreds of famous illustrations that showed ordinary American life. He died in 1978.
Ruby Bridges – A Girl Who Changed America
Little Ruby Bridges was all set to start first grade like other children but instead six year-old Ruby was destined to change the views of Americans across the United States. The year was 1960 and the country was deeply involved in the struggle for equal Civil Rights for all citizens.
In 1960 segregation was practiced, especially in the southern states.
One part of segregation was that white children attended school together and black children attended their own schools. The federal government passed laws that southern schools must be integrated. The law said a school must be open to children of all races.
Courts and judges were involved in supervising integration of the schools at the beginning. A judge in New Orleans, Louisiana ordered that four black girls attend what had been all-white elementary schools. Three of the girls were sent to one school and Ruby was assigned to another. She would be the only black child in the school.
People do not change their views overnight. On the first day of school, there was an angry crowd that protested integration of the school. Since city and state police refused to help Ruby, the federal government sent marshals to walk with Ruby in and out of school each day.
That’s not all. White parents refused to send their children to the integrated school. Every day Ruby was the only child in the whole school. Her teacher later said, “Sometimes I’d look at her and wonder how she did it. How she went by those mobs and sat there by herself and yet seemed so relaxed and comfortable.”
Later in the school year, some of the other parents realized that their children were missing out on their education and sent their sons to school. Ruby entered second grade in a full school and did not go through angry mobs. Six year-old Ruby had helped to change America.
Fiddling Forever
There was no question about it, Sven was the best fiddler in the county and everyone loved to hear him play. He lived alone in the deep Minnesota woods and occasionally came to town. When the townsfolk decided to have a fiddling contest, Charlie said, “We have to invite Sven.”
The next day Charlie set out for Sven’s remote cabin. “Yo, Sven!” Charlie called out when he finally reached the cabin. Charlie entered the log cabin and found Sven still asleep in bed at noon. Sven awakened when he heard Charlie’s footsteps.
“Hello Charlie,” Sven said weakly. “I haven’t been well. Some of my neighbors have been looking after me lately, making sure I have enough to eat and firewood.”
Charlie told Sven about the contest and Sven said he would come if he could but it was a long way to town.
There was much merriment in the air the night of the big contest. Five local fiddlers were competing and entertained the crowd with their best tunes. Feet were stomping and hands were clapping to the lively music. Everyone was having a good time but they all missed Sven’s marvelous talent at making his instrument come alive.
Just as the last fiddler was finishing the chorus of his tune, the door of the hall opened and there was Sven with fiddle in hand. He dazzled the crowd with his fine fiddling but just a he finished playing, he collapsed in a heap on the floor. Charlie dashed out the door to fetch the doctor.
Meanwhile Edgar decided to loosen Sven’s jacket and discovered that Sven was dead. He noticed that Sven’s clothes were covered in clay. No one had noticed Sven’s clothing because he stood way back in the doorway when he played instead of in front of the audience.
When Doc arrived and examined the body, he said in shocked tones, “Sven has been dead for days and it looks like he was buried too.”
From an American folk tale.
Cupid and Psyche
There once lived a maid, called Psyche, who was so very beautiful that the people who knew her thought her more lovely than the goddess Venus. So they worshiped her, and refused to place garlands and offerings upon the shrines of the goddess.
Desiring to punish the people, Venus sent her son Cupid to destroy the innocent Psyche. Although Cupid had used his weapons upon others, he himself had never loved. But when he saw Psyche, he started in surprise at her wonderful youthful beauty, and one of his own arrows pricked his heart. So he loved her, and, instead of obeying his mother's command, he carried Psyche away to his home on a distant mountain.
Here she lived in a palace of gleaming marble, surrounded by gardens with fragrant flowers and sparkling fountains. But one thing troubled her. Cupid had told her that he could visit her only during the night, and so she had never seen his face.
One night, overcome by her curiosity, Psyche held a lamp over Cupid while he slept. Dear Love was so beautiful as he lay there asleep, that she tipped the lamp in her surprise, and a drop of oil fell upon his rounded arm. Cupid awoke. He was angry at Psyche for her curiosity and lack of confidence. He spread his wings and flew far away to his home with the gods. Poor Psyche wept bitterly, but Cupid did not return.
Psyche means the soul, and this story teaches that love comes unsought and unseen to the soul which is faithful and worthy; but if doubt and curiosity possess the soul, love departs.
The Greeks chose the butterfly as the best emblem of the soul of man, because the caterpillar emerges from the chrysalis state more beautiful than before. Psyche, the soul, is thus shown in the works of art with the wings of a butterfly, or holding a butterfly in her hand.
The Story of Narcissus
One day, a boy named Narcissus looked into the still water of a quiet stream, and saw a lovely water nymph gazing back up at him. He smiled at her, and she smiled back. He thought that she was so beautiful that he had to see her again, so he came back again the next day. Again he peered down into the water, saw her, and smiled. Again she smiled back.
“Come out of the water,” he asked her. But she did not. Day after day he came to the stream to gaze at her lovely face. Over and over he asked her to join him on the land. Every day he believed that this would be the day that she would join him, because every day she smiled at him, and looked as pleased to see him as he was to see her. But then there were days when the sun hid behind the clouds. On those days the water was dark, and the wind blew ripples across its surface. On those days he could not see the water nymph’s beautiful golden curls or sparking blue eyes, and he would worry that she was angry with him.
What Narcissus never knew was that there was no water nymph; all he ever saw in the water was his own reflection. But he watched his reflection, and waited for the nymph to join him, and longed for her so much that he died of loneliness and disappointment. Out of pity for him, the gods changed him into a graceful and sweet-smelling flower, that we call the narcissus. The narcissus grows at the edges of streams, where to this day it bends down over the water to admire its own reflection.
Minerva and Arachne
Arachne was a young girl who was famous for her skill in embroidery and weaving. All the women of Greece knew that she excelled in this feminine work, and they liked to see her with her loom or needle. Even the nymphs, who love to sport about the fountains and in the groves, would leave their play to watch her. It was pleasant to see her deftly separate the wool, and card it until it was soft and fleecy as down. Then dexterously twirling the spindle, she wove the web so quickly and easily that one watched her fingers with delight. Under her skillful touch, the trees in her tapestry seemed to bend before the gentle breeze, and the flowers were so perfect that they were as beautiful as those growing in the gardens.
"Minerva, the goddess of weaving, must be her teacher," said all who saw her wonderful work. But this did not please Arachne, who was vain and proud. "I am my own teacher," she said, with a saucy toss of her pretty head, "and Minerva herself cannot compete with me."
This proud boast Minerva heard. The gods do not like such boasting, and Minerva determined to correct her or to punish her. She changed her form, and appeared before Arachne as a wise old woman.
"My child," she said, "do not challenge a goddess. Your work is beautiful and deserves praise, but Minerva's skill is that of a goddess. You are a mortal, and you should ask forgiveness of Minerva for your rash speech."
Arachne was angry at these wise words, and replied: "I do not wish your advice. I do not fear the goddess, and do not ask her forgiveness. If she is not afraid, let her come, and we will compare our work."
Lo! as she spoke, Minerva dropped her disguise, and stood revealed―a goddess. All around were amazed, and trembled before the glorious Minerva, except the angry Arachne.
Her friends tried to influence her to give up the contest, and to ask Minerva to forgive her irreverent words. But Arachne still thought she could excel the goddess in weaving, and, as Minerva said no more, the contest began.
Each took her place. Wools of different dyes were given them. Both worked with speed, and the slender shuttle seemed to fly under their fingers.
Arachne showed Leda and the swan, and Europa and the bull, with such fidelity to nature that they seemed to move and breathe. But the goddess showed her contest with Neptune. Twelve of the great gods were represented. Neptune with his trident had just produced the horse, that animal so strong and so useful to man. Minerva stood with her helmet and shield, showing her gift to man―the olive tree.
All the beholders saw that Minerva had surpassed Arachne, and felt that the proud girl must be punished for her pride and impiety. Minerva, more in pity than in anger, touched Arachne's forehead and said, "Live, guilty woman, and thus shall you preserve the memory of this lesson to all future times."
Speaking thus, the goddess changed the hapless Arachne into a spider. If you look at a spider's web, you will see that the descendants of Arachne still show great patience and skill, and spin wonderful webs.
The Magnetic Compass
Magnets are not an invention; magnets occur naturally in mineral called magnetite. Magnetite is an iron oxide that is easily magnetized when it forms. Magnetite is also known as Lodestone. The Greeks are credited with discovering magnetism. In one story, the nails in the shoe of a shepherd named Magnes stuck to a rock containing magnetite. The first practical use of a magnet was invented by the Vikings, who created the first magnetic compass. It was the compass that allowed them to travel so extensively by sea and to invade England. Because the magnetic compass gave the Vikings such an advantage, it was a very closely guarded secret in their culture. The Chinese invented a magnetic compass too, separately from the Vikings, and it was following the start of commercial trade with China that the magnetic compass was introduced in Europe. This made it possible for the Europeans, too, to travel vast distances across the ocean, although this didn’t happen until nearly 500 years after the Vikings. Today, all ships use magnetic compasses to navigate.
Day and Night
The Earth moves in two ways simultaneously. It both rotates on its own axis, and it rotates around the sun. It takes the Earth approximately 23 hours and 56 minutes to make a
complete rotation around the sun, or what we usually refer to as 24 hours. However, day
and night are not usually divided up equally into 12 hours each. Fluctuations in the
length of days and nights are caused by the tilt of the Earth's axis and its path around the sun. Because the equator is tilted 23.5 degrees from the Earth's orbital plane, the Earth's axis is not perpendicular to its orbit. For this reason, as the Earth moves along its orbit, the part of the Earth that is pointing towards the sun changes. Sometimes the Earth's southern rotational pole is pointing towards the sun. At other times, the Earth's northern pole is pointing towards the sun. How long the days and nights are where you are depends on your location on Earth, and the time of year. The positions of the Earth's orbit that mark the longest and shortest days are called the solstices. In the Northern Hemisphere, the winter solstice is the shortest day of the year and the summer solstice is the longest day of the year. In the Southern Hemisphere, the opposite is true: the winter solstice is the longest day of the year and the summer solstice is the shortest day of the year.
How The Rise of Cities Changed the World
Before the growth of what we call “civilization,” people lived in small villages, and fed themselves by hunting and gathering. But when people began farming instead, the stability of the food supply changed the way that people lived. The development of agriculture meant that groups of people could settle in one place, instead of having to continually move around in search of food sources. Cities began to form, and the growth of cities opened up many new options for work. Some people still farmed, but other people worked as priests, merchants, craftsmen, soldiers, civil servants, and laborers. Mesopotamia is often called the "Cradle of Civilization" because it was here that people first lived in large cities, used written language, and created governments.
One of the side-effects of people living in cities and forming governments was that for the first time, society began to be divided into different “classes” of people. The king and his family were at the top of society, as were the priests. Also near the top were wealthy administrators and scribes. The middle class was made up of craftsmen, merchants, and civil servants. The middle class lived fairly well, and it was possible for this middle class to work hard and try to move up. The lower class did most of the physical work. These were the farmers and the laborers, and though they lived a harder life, they, too, could move up in class. At the very bottom of the social structure were the slaves. Slaves were owned by the royalty and the upper class, and were usually people who had been captured in battle. Though it was possible for slaves to be freed by the people that owned them, most slaves had little hope for advancement in society.
Another side-effect of civilization was that more people had leisure time and activities developed for the purposes of entertainment. People in Mesopotamia enjoyed music, sports, and games. Children had toys. In the wealthier cities people also enjoyed art and poetry, much of which had a religious theme.
Stories were also passed down from generation to generation, with the more popular ones eventually being recorded on clay tablets by scribes.
A Clever Slave
A long time ago there lived a slave named Aesop. He was a small man with a large head and long arms. His face was white, but very homely. His large eyes were bright and snappy. When Aesop was about twenty years old his master lost a great deal of money and was obliged to sell his slaves. To do this, he had to take them to a large city where there was a slave market. The city was far away, and the slaves must walk the whole distance. A number of bundles were made up for them to carry. Some of these bundles contained the things they would need on the road; some contained clothing; and some contained goods which the master would sell in the city.
"Choose your bundles, boys," said the master. "There is one for each of you."
Aesop at once chose the largest one. The other slaves laughed and said he was foolish. But he threw it upon his shoulders and seemed well satisfied. The next day, the laugh was the other way. For the bundle which he had chosen had contained the food for the whole party. After all had eaten three meals from it, it was very much lighter. And before the end of the journey Aesop had nothing to carry, while the other slaves were groaning under their heavy loads.
"Aesop is a wise fellow," said his master. "The man who buys him must pay a high price."
A very rich man, whose name was Xanthus came to the slave market to buy a servant. As the slaves stood before him he asked each one to tell what kind of work he could do. All were eager to be bought by Xanthus because they knew he would be a kind master. So each one boasted of his skill in doing some sort of labor. One was a fine gardener; another could take care of horses; a third was a good cook; a fourth could manage a household.
"And what can you do, Aesop?" asked Xanthus.
"Nothing," he answered.
"Nothing? How is that?"
"Because, since these other slaves do everything, there is nothing left for me to perform," said Aesop.
This answer pleased the rich man so well that he bought Aesop at once, and took him to his home on the island of Samos.
In Samos the little slave soon became known for his wisdom and courage. He often amused his master and his master's friends by telling droll fables about birds and beasts that could talk. They saw that all these fables taught some great truth, and they wondered how Aesop could have thought of them.
Many other stories are told of this wonderful slave. His master was so much pleased with him that he gave him his freedom. Many great men were glad to call him their friend, and even kings asked his advice and were amused by his fables.
Seat Belts Save Lives
Riding, in a car can be dangerous. The first five minutes of rainfall makes roads suddenly slippery. Elevated surfaces like bridges and overpasses freeze more quickly than the regular road surface, and a driver cannot always tell if a road surface is icy or not. Road hazards, like large potholes or downed trees can appear unexpectedly. Other drivers on the road, who may be aggressive, distracted, or impaired can also cause hazards, and a driver doesn’t always have the time or enough information about what is going on to react quickly enough to stay safe. In fact, car crashes are the leading cause of death in the U.S. for people aged 11 through 27 in the United States.
That’s a scary statistic, but in fact, riding in a car is one place where you do have some control over your own safety. Cars today come with all kinds of fancy safety features, but the single most effective way to lower your risk of being injured or dying in a car crash is to use a seatbelt. Since 1975, seatbelts have saved nearly 300,000 lives.
Because seatbelts can make such a difference when it comes to safety, many states have laws that require you to wear a seatbelt at all times when in a moving car.
Seatbelts work because they keep you safe and secure inside of your vehicle. The cause of injury in a car crash is a quick change in speed. Remember, it’s not just the car that is traveling fast; your body is traveling fast as well. Seatbelts help to slow your body down. They restrain the strongest parts of the body, the hips and shoulders. They also spread out the force from the collision. Because less stress is put on any one particular part of the body, This can help you avoid serious injury. They also protect your brain and spinal cord.
The kinds of hazards you may encounter while traveling in a car are not entirely in your control, but it is in your control to give yourself the best possible chance of surviving a car accident. Always wear your seatbelt, and encourage others to do so as well.
Baby Humpback Whales “Talk” to Mom
As human beings grow up, the way they signal hunger to their caregivers changes. From the crying baby, to the toddler calling, “Eat! Eat!” to the big kid who walks in the door after school and announces, “Hey Mom, I’m hungry!” it seems that all mammals have a way to communicate this most basic need - hunger - until they are big enough to care for themselves.
Researchers in Denmark recently tracked two humpback whale mothers and eight baby calves to figure out how the babies signal hunger. Humpback whales migrate long distances from their feeding grounds, traveling to warmer regions to breed and give birth. A few months later, the new calves make the trek back home with their mothers. The journey is dangerous. The calves have to have gained enough body fat to insulate them for the journey. And they are also vulnerable to predators, which might be attracted to the sound of the calves “talking” to their mother. To solve the mystery of how these humpback calves say, “Hey mom, I’m hungry!” scientists used special recorders to capture both the movement of the whales and the sounds in the water around them. They attached the recorders to temporary tags and attached the tags to the calves using suctions cups. Because the cups fall off within a day, the calves were not harmed by the research.
What they found was that the calves communicate by gently nudging their mothers, or by making very soft sounds, and the mothers also answer very quietly. This mother/calf “language” is very different from the grown-up whale songs which are loud and eerie and can travel long distances through the ocean. The scientists think that the mothers and calves are basically “whispering” so that they can’t be heard by predators. One conclusion of this study is that there are real life and death consequences to human “noise pollution” in the oceans. If the mothers and babies can’t be heard above shipping and fishing vehicles, they could get separated, making it less likely that the calves will survive.
The Goose that Laid the Golden Eggs
One day a countryman going to the nest of his Goose found there an egg all yellow and glittering. When he took it up it was as heavy as lead and he was going to throw it away, because he thought a trick had been played upon him. But he took it home on second thoughts, and soon found to his delight that it was an egg of pure gold. Every morning the same thing occurred, and he soon became rich by selling his eggs. As he grew rich he grew greedy; and thinking to get at once all the gold the Goose could give, he killed it and opened it only to find nothing.
The Cat and the Mice
Once there was a house that was full of mice. There were mice in the walls, mice in the closets and cupboards, and mice under the floor boards. A hungry cat heard about this and set off for the house at once. The people in the house decided to keep the cat for a pet, and let him in the house. Every day the cat caught mice and ate them. Realizing the risk of running about the house had become too great, the mice stopped coming out and stayed hidden, instead, in their mouse holes. No more mice were caught. But the cat began to get bored and hungry. I need to figure out a way to get them out of their holes, the cat said to himself. He thought about it for a while. Then he climbed up the wall and hung by his hind legs from a hook, and pretended to be dead. Soon, a mouse peeked out of his mouse hole and saw the cat hanging on the wall. “You think you’re pretty smart,” the mouse said to the cat. “But you could turn yourself into an umbrella hanging there and still not one of us will come near you!”
The Donkey, the Fox and the Lion
A donkey and a fox decided to be friends and partners, and headed out into the forest to find food together. Before long, they saw a lion coming. They were both very frightened. But the fox, hoping to save himself, walked up to the lion and whispered in his ear, “I’ll help you get the donkey, if you let me get away safely.” The lion agreed. So the fox and the donkey went on their way, with the lion following stealthily behind them. Soon, the fox had led the donkey to a hidden pit, left by some long-ago hunter as a trap for wild animals, and the donkey fell in. When the lion saw that the donkey was in the pit, he came out of hiding. He quickly ate the fox first, then he took his time eating the donkey.
The Mouse and the Bull
A bull chased a mouse that had bitten him on the nose. The bull was big and strong, but the mouse was tiny, nimble and quick. The mouse slipped into a crack in a wall. Furious, the bull charged the wall again and again, trying to knock it down to get to the mouse. Finally, exhausted, and having made no progress, he sank to the ground to rest. Seeing that for the moment the bull was no longer a threat, the mouse darted out and bit the bull on the nose again. Crazed with anger, the bull leapt again to his feet But by the time he did the mouse was already safely back inside the wall, and the outraged bull could do nothing but stew in his own anger.
The Fox and the Grapes
One hot, summer day, a fox was passing by an orchard when he saw a bunch of fat, purple grapes hanging low from a trellis. I am thirsty, he thought to himself. And those grapes look juicy. They would be just the thing to quench my thirst. He jumped up to try to snatch down the bunch of grapes, but they were just out of reach. He jumped again and again, each time barely grazing the grapes, unable to snag them between his sharp, eager teeth. Finally, the fox gave up. Oh well, he thought to himself as he walked away, they were probably sour anyway.
The Apprentice – Williamsburg Style
Twelve year-old Henry awoke at dawn on a chilly December morning, reluctant to toss off his warm covers. He slept in the unheated attic of his master’s house and he knew the floor would be cold under his feet. Marcy, the housekeeper, was already in the warm kitchen preparing breakfast. Henry knew it was his job to make sure the fires in the rest of the house were lit and rooms warmed before the family awoke.
Henry wriggled out of his long nightshirt and donned his cold clothes. He scampered downstairs and washed his face quickly with some warm water Marcy prepared for him.
“Good morning Henry,” she said. “I have a Johnny cake and some hot tea ready for you after you light the fires.”
After Henry got the logs burning in the dining and living room fireplaces, he sat down for a quick breakfast in the kitchen with Marcy, a black slave. Henry was an apprentice to Mr. Wilson who was a cabinet-maker. Henry and his parents signed a contract with Mr. Wilson to teach Henry to be a cabinet-maker too.
Henry would live with Mr. Wilson’s family until he was sixteen in 1784, promising to be a faithful servant. In exchange for Henry’s work, Mr. Wilson would provide Henry with food, lodging, clothing and laundry in addition to teaching him the cabinet-maker’s trade. Henry could not leave Mr. Wilson’s house without his permission and Henry could not sell any of the merchandise he made.
“Thank you for the breakfast,” Henry said to Marcy as he put on his coat. “I need to get the fire lit in the workshop and the tools ready for the day. Today Mr. Wilson will be working on Dame Anderson’s new dining table.”
Henry scampered off to the workshop which was the small building behind the house. He knew Mr. Wilson would be upset if the shop wasn’t ready when it was time to start working.
Halloween Creatures
Uncle Moses is in his fifties and has been a bachelor all his life. He doesn’t have any family living in the Middlebury area but somehow everybody around town calls him Uncle Moses anyway.
On Halloween evening Uncle Moses drove the tractor with a hay wagon loaded with kids pulled along behind it. It was a chilly night like Halloween often is. He parked in a dark secluded spot where the fire was ready to be lit. Clouds covered what should have been the bright harvest moon.
After everyone roasted hot dogs and marshmallows, they sat around the warm fire casually chatting. Then Uncle Moses started to speak, recounting folktales of vampires and other monstrous creatures. First he told about the Scottish vampires, the Baobban Sith. These beautiful young women are always dressed in long green gowns that hide their goat-like feet but sometimes they appear as ravens or crows. After enticing a young man to dance until he is exhausted, the vampire drains the blood from his body.
“Beware of the Russian wampir,” Uncle Moses warned in hushed tones. “There may be one sitting among us right now. Wampirs look like normal humans. They use the stinger under their tongues to stun their victims. Then they suck out every drop of blood. Wampirs roam the earth from noon ‘til midnight. We might see one yet tonight!”
Everyone giggled at the thought of a Russian vampire invading their Halloween party.
A chilly wind started to blow and the kids moved closer to the fire as Uncle Moses started a tall tale about a ferocious werewolf that attacked unsuspecting humans in the deep dark forests of Transylvania. A couple of kids thought they heard rustling in the leaves nearby but ignored the sounds until someone yelled, “I see yellow eyes coming this way!”
Sure enough, a creature was approaching the campfire; it was just the right size to be a werewolf on Halloween night. A couple of kids screamed and hid their faces with their hands.
Uncle Moses just chuckled and called softly, “Come Sophia and join the party.”
Sophia, Uncle Moses’ chocolate lab dog, pattered over and started licking the kids. The kids decided they had enough of Halloween stories, put out the fire and hopped back onto the hay wagon for the ride back to the barn.
The Argument
Mom could hear the girls squabbling all the way in the kitchen. It was the third time this week that the sisters had been arguing over something or fighting about nothing. A few minutes later Maria stormed through kitchen and slammed the door as she left.
“Come back here, young lady,” Mom firmly stated in her best mother tone of voice. Maria turned around and came back into the kitchen.
“I can’t stand living with Felicia another minute,” Maria blurted out. “I don’t ever want to talk to her again!”
Mom immediately called out, “Felicia, come to the kitchen right now.”
While Felicia was on her way, Mom took two of the kitchen chairs and placed them opposite each other but very close together.
“Maria, you sit here and Felicia you sit there.” The girls sat facing each other, knees almost touching. “Now you look each other in the eye for five minutes,” Mom ordered while she stood there as a referee.
The sisters squirmed at first but Mom was adamant that they stay staring icily at each other for five minutes, saying something about each minute they didn’t make eye contact meant another minute sitting in the chairs. They both wanted out so all they could do was sit there and look at each other.
Felicia looked at Maria’s pouting face while Maria looked at Felicia’s angry scowl. They each thought the other one looked ridiculous! In reality, they were being ridiculous to fight and be mad at each other over nothing.
Soon Maria couldn’t stand it any longer and began giggling and so did Felicia. They giggled and laughed.
Mom wisely didn’t say anything except, “Okay girls, you can go now.”
Into Space
Little Neil was just two years old when his Dad took him to watch an airplane race. The
year was 1932 and in those days air shows featured brightly colored aircraft
piloted by daredevils. At that early age Neil was already fascinated with flying.
At age four, Neil went with his Dad for their own ride in an airplane. While Dad was nervous, Neil had the most wonderful time.
Later, Neil spent time making balsa wood model airplanes. Then he graduated to more complicated plastic models. He paid for his models and lots of flying magazines by mowing lawns.
When Neil was thirteen, the family moved to a new town. Neil adapted to a new school, joined the Boy Scouts, and played in the school band. He still flew model airplanes and immersed himself in the night sky using a neighbor’s telescope.
The fascination with flying never diminished. Neil was old enough to walk to the nearby airport to watch the planes. As a part-time job he washed planes and made extra money. Then he realized that he wanted to learn to be a pilot himself but lessons cost $9 an hour. Why, Neil would need to work for 25 hours at his other jobs to afford just one lesson, but it was well worth all the hard work.
Neil asked his parents for permission and, knowing how much he loved airplanes, they agreed that he could learn to fly an airplane. Even though he couldn’t get a driver’s license for a car, at age 16 Neil had his student pilot’s license. When Neil grew up he became a U.S. Navy fighter pilot and then a test pilot for advanced rocket-powered aircraft.
Have you guessed which Neil the story is about? On July 20, 1969 astronaut Neil Armstrong was the first human to set foot on the moon with the famous words, “That’s one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind.”
Koko
While Koko can hear perfectly she cannot speak words; instead she joins thousands of others who communicate through American Sign Language. What makes this an unusual situation is that Koko is a gorilla. Koko learned sign language from her close friend Penny who raised her beginning in 1972 when Koko was young and they still are together today.
Koko communicates well with sign language; even though she doesn’t use sentences she gets her points across very well. For example, when she wants to play a game of hide-and-seek she signs the phrase “time quiet chase.”
When Koko was five years old Penny decided that she should have another gorilla as a companion. Penny informed Koko that a there would be a new baby. When Koko was introduced to Michael, a three year-old gorilla, she commented, “Wrong, old.” Michael was not a baby gorilla.
Of course, Koko was accustomed to being the center of everyone’s attention and became jealous of her new “brother.” She enjoyed seeing Michael get in trouble for doing something inappropriate and, like many an older sister, enticed the youngster into doing something that would get him in trouble. Koko would laugh when Michael was then scolded.
Like normal human siblings, Koko and Michael would call each other names and have little rivalry spats. One day Penny asked Koko about Michael and Koko signed, “Stupid toilet.”
Michael immediately signed back, “Stink bad squash gorilla.”
Koko enjoyed her pet cat and treated it gently. She selected the kitten herself and even named it. When Penny asked Koko, “Have you thought of a name yet?”
Koko signed in reply, “That smoke. Smoke smoke.” which was quite appropriate for her new smoky grey kitten. But if asked what her favorite animal is, she always replied, “Gorilla.”
Opening Day at the Subway
Commuters and citizens in urban areas who regularly use the subway don’t remember that the subway was once a new invention and something special. London was the first major city in the world to have a subway. It opened on January 9, 1863 and has been in use ever since.
Tens of thousands of immigrants from Europe crowded into New York City at the end of the 1800s, each one looking for the promise of a new life in the United States. City traffic was terrible and workers needed a means to get to their factory jobs. New York City constructed a subway that opened on October 27, 1904.
Of course, there was no television coverage of the event. In those days politicians made long speeches to get attention. After all the speeches the New York dignitaries were the first to walk down the stairs and onto the brand new train platform.
The Mayor of New York City had the honor of inserting a silver key to start the engine of the first American subway train which had four cars. A skilled motorman was ready to drive the train but the Mayor never relinquished the driver’s position. Like any new driver, his actions weren’t smooth and the train lurched forward uncomfortably.
Once underway the train ran smoothly along the brand new tracks so the Mayor increased the throttle and increased it again. The train was speeding along! Mr. Hedley, the general manager of the subway, knowing the train would need to stop soon suggested that the motorman take over the controls.
“No sir!” replied the Mayor. “I’m running this train.”
Since he was distracted, the Mayor’s hand slipped from the throttle and hit the emergency brake which suddenly and immediately stopped the speeding train. All the well-dressed dignitaries in their fancy top hats tumbled everywhere. And so, the New York subway was officially open.
Giant Flowers
When a friend asked Georgia O’Keefe what she wanted to be when she grew up she replied, “I’m going to be an artist.”
Georgia was only twelve years old and in eighth grade but she already knew where she wanted to go in life. In high school Georgia signed up for an art class where one day the teacher brought in a jack-in-the-pulpit flower. After that lesson Georgia became intrigued with the idea of painting plants and flowers.
Upon graduation from high school in 1905 she announced, “I am going to give up everything for art.” The fall after graduation she studied at the famous Chicago Art Institute but it wasn’t until 1924 when she was living in New York City that she revisited her ideas about painting flowers. She didn’t paint ordinary flowers; she painted giant flowers.
She explained her idea years later after she became famous, saying, “So I said to myself – I’ll paint what I see – what the flower is to me, but I’ll paint it big, and they will be surprised into taking time to look at it – I will make even busy New Yorkers take the time to see what I see of flowers.”
In Georgia O’Keefe’s era most people believed that only men could become famous artists. After she became famous for her flowers, she decided to paint the scenes of New York City, where she lived. Again, years later she wrote, “Of course, I was told it was an impossible idea – even the men hadn’t done too well with it. From my teens on, I had been told that I had crazy notions, so I was accustomed to disagreement
and went on with my idea of painting New
York.”
Georgia O’Keefe is also famous for her unusual paintings of the American Southwest. She died in 1986 at ninety-eight years of age.
Scottie
Scottie started life as the youngest of twelve children in a town of just 3,000 people in rural Arkansas. Scottie’s entire family lived in a four-room house. His Dad
worked for the local paper mill and his Mom washed floors at the bank at night to earn enough for the family.
Scottie’s liked sports and played Little League baseball; he even earned a spot on the All-Stars team. Most of all, Scottie and his friends liked to play basketball and dreamed of becoming NBA (National Basketball Association) professional players.
So Scottie tried out for the high school basketball team. The rule for being on the basketball team was either to practice with the football team in the fall or take the weightlifting course. His tall skinny body wasn’t suited for the rough football practice so he started lifting weights. He hated lifting weights but made the basketball team his sophomore year.
In his junior year he skipped the weightlifting and decided to be the manager of the football team instead. When he appeared for basketball practice, the coach would not let him on the team because he didn’t follow the rules. Eventually the coach allowed him to be on the team if he ran up and down the gym bleachers after every practice to make up for missing weightlifting. This was his punishment for not following the rules.
Scottie played basketball well in his senior year, graduating in 1983, but none of the Arkansas colleges invited him to join their teams. He finally played basketball for the University of Central Arkansas but was dropped from the team in his sophomore year because of poor grades. At this point, Scottie realized he had to follow all the rules if he wanted to be a successful basketball player.
After graduating from college, Scottie Pippen was selected to join the Chicago Bulls pro basketball team. He was recognized as one of the top 50 players in the game on the NBA’s fiftieth anniversary in 1997.
The Height of Fashion
Eleven year-old William was up early on Sunday even though it wasn’t a school day. No one in his household ever slept late unless they were really sick. His father was a
banker and the family followed the standards of genteel folk of 1876 Philadelphia.
“William, are you getting ready for church? Remember services start at 10:30 sharp,” his
Mother called out. Besides never sleeping late the family never missed Sunday services.
William wanted to answer back that he wasn’t a baby and knew what time services started but he didn’t. He knew from past experience that he would be punished with the hickory stick for talking back. His parents believed in the saying, “Spare the rod, spoil the child.”
He was happy getting dressed into his favorite dress-up outfit. He felt so special and good looking when he wore his fashionable sailor suit in public. All the best dressed boys in Pennsylvania and beyond wore a navy blue sailor suit.
Sailor suits were made from serge material, a woolen fabric that was worn year-round. Mothers dressed children in wool even in the summer so they wouldn’t catch a deadly respiratory infection from being chilled.
The pants of William’s suit were bell-bottomed just like real sailors wore. The long-sleeved shirt has a wide nautical collar that was accented by red and white cord piping.
William even had the matching cap to top off his naval costume. But before donning his cap, William made sure to part his hair exactly in the middle and slick it down properly with some water. He wanted his hair to look good when he took his cap off in church.
William’s little sister Anna had a fashionable sailor suit too. Girls and women never wore pants so her suit had a navy blue skirt that hung below her knees. She wore knee-high stockings and button-up shoes. Instead of a cap, she had a broad-brimmed straw hat with a wide navy blue ribbon around the crown that hung down almost to her shoulders in the back.
William was very pleased with himself when he got into the carriage to go to Sunday services.
The Flying Tomato
Instantly recognizable for his shoulder length unkempt red hair, the Italians at the 2006 Torino Winter Olympic Games greeted athlete Shaun White as “Il Pomodoro Volante!” – “The Flying Tomato.” Shaun White indeed flies through the air at heights of 20 feet above the ground with his skilled feats at his dominant sports, snowboarding and skateboarding.
This robust and unstoppable athlete actually started out life with a serious
problem, a birth defect in his heart. It took two major surgeries before he reached a year old to repair his heart. Yet, this early medical problem has never slowed Shaun down one single bit.
Shaun began skiing with his family when he was just four years old. He was such a fearless skier that his Mom put him on a snowboard instead of skis when he was six to slow him down and keep him safe. Shaun excelled at snowboarding, winning his first championship when he was just seven. A company named Burton Snowboards made Shaun custom child-size equipment and he was able to turn into a professional snowboarder when he was thirteen, soaring ever higher.
Even before he became a pro snowboarder he was learning new sports. Skateboarding superstar Tony Hawk befriended Shaun and the two athletes, one a seasoned champion and one a youngster, would skateboard together. Soon Shaun was competing in skateboarding events as well snowboarding. For anyone who asserts that the two sports are easy to combine because they both use boards don’t understand the level of unique skills required to be a champion in these two sports.
Yet, Shaun White - The Flying Tomato - soared above the rest by winning X Games gold medals in both sports plus being a gold medal Olympic athlete in snowboarding. However, it hasn’t all been an easy and rosy picture for Shaun. “Every time I’ve had a bad performance at an event, I’ve come back more determined and focused to succeed,” Shaun once said to a reporter from USA Today.
Who was Rasputin?
Grigori Yefimovich Rasputin is commonly known as the 'Mad Monk,' but he was not a monk. He was a religious pilgrim who was believed to be a faith healer in his own time. Modern historians think that Rasputin was a scapegoat for the downfall of the Romanov dynasty, which led to the Bolshevik revolution and the establishment of the Soviet Union.
Rasputin played an important role in the lives of Tsar Nicholas II and his wife, the Tsarina Alexandra of the Romanov dynasty. Their son had hemophilia, which means that his blood would not clot properly. Even the smallest cut for Aleksey could cause him to bleed to death. Because of his condition, Aleksey was often in pain. The Tsar and Tsarina had tried everything to find a cure, and as a last resort, they asked Rasputin for help. Rasputin was able to relieve some of the boy’s pain.
Because of his help, the Tsar called Rasputin a friend of the family, and Rasputin had a lot of influence on Alexandra. But Rasputin had a bad reputation. During World
War I, he was accused of having an unpatriotic influence on the Tsar’s court, and many people wanted him removed. Prince Felix Yussupov, one of the elite of Saint Petersburg, took it upon himself to murder Rasputin. A few months later, the Romanov dynasty was overthrown; less than two years later and the Tsar and his family were all killed.
Through history, Rasputin has become a kind of mythical character. The western world feels that he represents the supposed backwardness and superstition of the Russian peasants; to Russian Communists, Rasputin represented everything that had been wrong with the old Russian regime. But to ordinary Russian people, Rasputin is still a symbol of the Russian peasants, and many reject the myths surrounding him and prefer to remember Rasputin as a common and charismatic man, who was swept into involvement with a tumultuous time in Russian history.
What’s a Safari?
The word safari comes from the Swahili word meaning “journey.” The word used to have a negative connotation, suggesting that big game animals would be hunted, shot, and removed from the country as trophies for the hunters. Nowadays, a safari is a journey through African wilderness with the goal of seeing African wildlife in their natural habitat. Safaris are also about experiencing the local cultures of Africa, exploring scenic The word safari comes from the Swahili word meaning “journey.” The word used to have a negative connotation, suggesting that big game animals would be hunted, shot, and removed from the country as trophies for the hunters. Nowadays, a safari is a journey through African wilderness with the goal of seeing African wildlife in their natural habitat. Safaris are also about experiencing the local cultures of Africa, exploring scenic
Supercontinents
Nowadays, there are seven continents: Asia, Africa, North America, South America,
Europe, Australia, and Antarctica, though some geographers combine Europe and
Asia into Eurasia and say that there are only six. But did you know that 300 million
years ago, all the land mass on the earth was once a single supercontinent called Pangaea? When Pangea broke apart, it left a record of fossils and rocks that geologists have been discovering and interpreting. It was this fossil record, along with continent shorelines that fit together like puzzle pieces, that were the first clues that Earth's continents move. Pangea was not the earth’s first supercontinent; before Pangea there was Rodinia, which existed about a billion years ago. Scientists believe that it was broken up during a period of time when the earth was covered by glaciers and ice sheets.
Voting Rights for Washington D.C.?
Approximately 673,000 people live in Washington D.C., but the citizens of Washington D.C. are not represented in Congress, because Washington D.C. is not a state. You may think that it is because Washington D.C. is too small to be a state, but more people live in D.C. than live in either Vermont or Wyoming, and the population of D.C. is similar to that of other states like Delaware and Alaska. In fact, the United States is the only country in the world with a representative, democratic constitution in which the people living in its capital do not have representation in the national legislature.
Many people believe that Washington D.C. should be a state. The people who live there pay both federal and local taxes, and they have all the responsibilities associated with citizenship. The current Delegate for the District of Columbia, Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes, a Democrat, is one of many people who continue to lobby for D.C. to be granted the rights of statehood.
he History of Pizza
You probably think that pizza comes from Italy, but it actually originated in ancient Greece. The early Greeks baked large, flat, round bread to which they added toppings like oil, herbs, spices, and dates. It was this idea of flat bread which made its way to Italy by the 18th century, where it was first called “pizza.” This early Italian pizza would look unfamiliar to us, though, since it had no toppings. Inexpensive to make, tasty, and filling, “pizza” was a popular food among Italy’s poor.
Pizza began to resemble the meal we know by that name today when tomatoes were introduced to and accepted by the people of Naples. But pizza really started to be pizza in 1889 when Queen Margherita and her husband, Umberto I, toured her Italian Kingdom. Intrigued by the flat bread she saw being enjoyed by the peasants, the Queen requested that her guards bring her one of the breads. She discovered that it was delicious, and after that, when she was out among the people, she would often enjoy a meal of the flat bread. There were some who thought that the Queen should not be seen eating anything so common, but she loved the bread so much that she asked Chef Raffaele Esposito to come from his pizzeria to the royal palace to bake her pizza.
Chef Raffaele wanted to make Queen Margherita something very special, so he topped her pizza with tomatoes, Mozzarella Cheese, and fresh Basil. The pizza ― red, white, and green ― had the same colors as the Italian flag. It became the Queen’s favorite, and her love for pizza made her even more popular with her subjects. To this day, people in Naples and all over the world still eat the Pizza Margherita, prepared exactly as Chef Raffaele first prepared it for its namesake. The creation of that pizza inspired people to experiment with many different kinds of toppings, and the modern idea of pizza was born.
Some History about Robots
Robots in some form have been with human beings for thousands of years. During the Renaissance, Da Vinci built automated machines that could be considered robots today. The Greeks built devices to help them solve problems. The Chinese had automated machines as early as the third century A.D. But when we think of robots today, we think of something more than an automated machine. We associate the word “robot” with a machine that is human-like. It is because they are human-like that many people find the idea of robots disturbing. But where did the word “robot” come from?
The word “robot” was first used by the Czech playwright Karl Capek in his play R.U.R., which debuted on January 25, 1921. R.U.R. is an acronym for Rossum’s Universal Robots, which was the company in the play that creates and sells robots that try to replace humans. The play, which was the first work of fiction to portray a world conquered by machines, was performed all over Europe and the United States. The word “robot” comes from the Czech word “robota,” meaning labor, servitude, or slave.
What is Botany?
What is Botany? The pupils are very apt to say at first that it is learning
about flowers. The teacher can draw their attention to the fact that flowers
are only a part of the plant, and that Botany is also the study of the leaves, the stem, and the root. Botany is the science of plants. Ask them what the Geranium is. Tell them to name some other plants. The teacher should keep a few growing plants in the schoolroom for purposes of illustration.
Ask them what else there is in the world besides plants. By this question the three kingdoms, animal, vegetable, and mineral, are brought up. It will give occasion for a discussion of the earth and what it contains, the mountains, formed of rocks and soil, the plants growing on the earth, and the animals that inhabit it, including man. Let them name the three kingdoms with some example of each. Which of these kingdoms contain living things? The words “organic” and “inorganic” can be brought in here. An “organ” is any part that does a special work, as the leaves, the stem of a plant, and the eye, the ear of animals. An “organism” is a living being made up of such organs. The inorganic world contains the mineral kingdom; the organic world includes the vegetable and animal kingdoms.
One's aim in these lessons should always be to tell the pupils as little as possible. Try to lead them to think out these things for themselves.
The Siberian Husky
As its name suggest, the Siberian Husky breed of dog originated in Siberia. The husky has
a thick coat that can come in any combination of white, grey, black, and brown. Their distinctive eyes are blue; some huskies have one blue eye and one brown eye. Many people think that huskies look like wolves. Bred to be a sled dog, they have amazing endurance and a willingness to work. Huskies are also friendly dogs who like people, making them well-suited to any kind of work that a dog can be taught to do. Their temperaments make them good family pets. They are good with children and easy to train. However, they can be a challenge. Huskies are very independent. They like to dig, they tend to pull on a leash, and they are almost certain to find a way out of the back yard. If you are interested in getting a Siberian Husky as a pet, you should be prepared to give the dog daily exercise.
Dog Groups
Dog breeds are generally divided into groups.
The Hound Group of dogs include those who have been historically used for hunting. The Hound group includes the Basset Hound, Afghan Hound, Beagle, Bloodhound, and Basenji.
The Working Group includes dogs bred to perform such jobs as guarding property, pulling sleds and performing water rescues. Members of the Working Group include the Akita, the Bernese Mountain Dog, the Boxer, the Great Dane, and the Siberian Husky.
Dogs in the Herding Group (Border Collie, Australian Shephard, Bouvier, Belgian Shephard) were included in the Working Group up until 1983.
The Sporting Group includes dogs that are naturally active and alert. This group, which includes pointers, retrievers, setters and spaniels, are known for their instincts both in water and in the woods.
Dogs in the Working, Herding, and Sporting groups require a lot of exercise, as well as regular mental stimulation.
Dogs in the Non-Sporting Group include dogs of a variety of sizes, coats, personalities, and overall appearance. Members of this group include the Chow Chow, Dalmatian, French Bulldog, Boston Terrier, and the Keeshond. Popular breeds like the Poodle and the Lhasa Apso also belong to this group.
The Terrier Group is made up of energetic dogs that can range in size from the small Norfolk, Cairn, or West Highland White Terrier up to the large Airedale Terrier.
The Toy Group (Chihuahua, Maltese, Miniature Pinscher, Pekinese, etc.) consists of small dogs whose main function is to be a pet.
Body Language
How do humans and other animals communicate with each other? Of course,
humans communicate verbally by talking and making other sounds like laughing. Most other
mammals also communicate by making sounds as well. Sophisticated intelligent mammals,
especially dolphins and whales, possess well-developed verbal skills and communicate with
high pitched sounds that carry through the water. Researchers are actively working on deciphering and interpreting these sounds in order to understand dolphin and whale language.
Verbal communication is accompanied by non-verbal body language that also conveys meaning and emotion. Body language includes facial expression, posture, position of the arms and many other cues that help in understanding the meaning of verbal communication. In the absence of verbal communication body language can be sufficient to convey meaning. Sometimes merely a stern look from Mom or Dad or a teacher lets you know that you are not behaving properly; no words are necessary!
Compare these two scenes. Your brother hides a rubber snake under the covers of your bed. Smiling, you toss it at him and say, “I hate you!” In scene two, shaking with rage, you hurl it at him and yell, “I hate you!” In these two scenes the verbal communication, the words spoken, is identical but the body language is entirely different. It’s easy to see from these two cases how important non-verbal body language is in how verbal communication is interpreted by someone else. The best actors not only speak well but also use subtle changes in facial expression and overall body language when portraying a character to make the character real.
Some body language is a result of automatic body responses. For example, people automatically react to an unexpected loud noise. Successful people are aware of their body language and its effect on others. As a result, they learn to control their body language. Have you heard the term “poker face?” Good poker players control their facial expression and other body language so their opponents have no idea whether they have a winning hand or are just bluffing.
Swimmer Extraordinaire
Not many champion swimmers achieve Olympic records but in 1912 Hawaiian Duke Kahanamoku won Olympic Gold and set a new world’s record in the 100- meter freestyle event. The 1916 Olympic Games were canceled because of World War I but Duke went on to keep his Gold Medal standing again in 1920.
Duke learned to swim in the ocean when he was just four years old. Swimming was his passion and every day after school he headed for the blue water near his home. Soon he was swimming miles every day. As a teen he watched the technique of elite Australian swimmers who were in Hawaii on a visit. After seeing the foreign swimmers Duke developed a flutter kick and a new crawl stroke that were more efficient at propelling a swimmer through the water.
Fortunately for Duke, the Hawaiian Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) was formed in 1910 which meant that Hawaiian athletes could vie for spots on the U.S. Olympic team. At the first AAU swim meet in Hawaii, Duke broke three national AAU swimming records. He was invited to travel to the mainland and try out for the U.S. Olympic swim team.
Friends helped Duke raise the money needed to reach Los Angeles, a long boat trip across the Pacific Ocean. Unfortunately, in California Duke experienced racial discrimination in public places due to his skin color. The first Olympic qualifying swim meet that Duke participated in was in Chicago in February where he experienced cold weather for the first time. In the subsequent qualifying meet in Pittsburg, Duke’s left leg cramped due to the cold and he had to be hauled out of the pool. The following day, he redeemed himself by setting two new world records. He went on from there to Olympic gold in the 1912 games.
Since the 1916 Olympic Games were canceled, Duke competed in the 1920 games when he was 30 years old, again winning Olympic Gold. In 1922 Duke returned to California where he appeared in movies. Unfortunately, following the norm of the times, Duke always played a stereotypical native chief. Duke competed again in the 1924 Olympic Games but his former Olympic record was beaten by another top- notch American swimmer, Johnny Weissmuller. Duke planned to compete again in the 1928 Olympic Games; he trained but did not compete due to illness. He returned to Hawaii where he died in 1968.
A Little about Shakespeare
Is knowing about William Shakespeare important in the 21st Century or is it Much Ado About Nothing (the title of one of his famous plays)? William Shakespeare lived in England from 1564 until his death in 1616. Shakespeare did not come from a prominent family; his father was a glovemaker. As was typical of the times, Shakespeare left school at age fifteen and began working for his father.
Shakespeare married when he was eighteen and ten years later he was making a living as a well-known actor and playwright in the London theatre. The plays he wrote were hugely successful in his lifetime. Thirty-eight of his plays are published today, nearly 400 years after they were written and first performed. Experts expect that Shakespeare wrote more plays but copies no longer exist. Since the plays were new, only copies for the actors were made. Many historical records and copies of plays were destroyed when the theatre Shakespeare worked with burned in 1613.
Shakespeare’s thirty-eight existing plays fall into several major categories. The histories are based upon historical events focused on kings, wars and power struggles among the ruling class of England. Three historical plays are known as the Roman plays because they are about rulers of Ancient Rome; one play is entitled Julius Caesar and another is Antony and Cleopatra.
Twelve of Shakespeare’s plays are classified as comedies. These comedies are not like the light-hearted comedy movies we watch today. Shakespeare’s comedies utilize mistaken identity, love at first sight, or some form of trickery as the comedic theme but also contain tragic parts set in complicated plots. The comedies are still performed frequently, especially for summertime theatres.
The tragedies are Shakespeare’s most powerful works; each tragedy centers around one major character who has a fatal human flaw like jealousy or pride. Macbeth, Hamlet, and Romeo and Juliet continue to be favorites even now. Actors and actresses find it a challenge to play these well-known characters.
Shakespeare remains popular because his plays center on the flaws of human nature and timeless conflicts.
Heat Conduction and Insulation
Have you ever boiled water? Almost as if by magic, applying enough heat from the stove
burner causes the water to boil and ultimately change state from a liquid to steam, the gaseous state of water. The stove derives its heat energy from natural gas or electricity while microwave cooking relies on electromagnetic energy to change the state of food. Water boils because heat energy was transferred from the heat source to the water. When sufficient heat energy transfers from one substance to another, it causes changes in the state of matter. The three classical states of matter are solid, liquid and gas.
Conduction is the passage of energy through something. Heat energy always moves from substances with high heat energy to those of lower heat energy; the laws of physics state that heat transfers from warmer matter to cooler matter. If you think about it, these laws of physics explain why your skin burns when you touch a hot pan on the stove or dish that’s just come out of the oven.
Metals are good conductors of heat which is why metal pots are used extensively for cooking on the stove. Of course, metal cookware is not suitable for microwave cooking. Ceramics are also good conductors of heat, which explains why early civilizations made their cookware from fired clay which creates a type of ceramic material. Conversely, ceramic floor tiles are ideal for flooring in warm climates. Heat flows from warm human feet to the cool tile; the transfer of heat out of the body makes a person feel cooler.
Insulation prevents or reduces the conduction of heat. A wonderful example of insulation is a polar bear’s fur. A polar bear has two layers of fur. The dense inner layer which preserves body heat lies next to the bear’s black skin. The dark skin naturally absorbs rays from the sun, adding to the bear’s warmth. The outer layer of fur, called guard hairs, consists of hollow hairs that are essentially filled with air. Since air is a poor conductor of heat, the guard hairs also help to keep the polar bear warm. Humans utilize the insulating property of air when they dress in layers during cold weather.
Making Movies
Car chases, heroes and villains dangling from buildings, or enormous explosions keep movie
viewers on the edge of their seats and make for top-selling movies. The magic of movies is that their creation is done by movie magicians who are experts at creating enormous illusions through the use of special effects. It only appears that the action on the screen actually occurred.
Many people are involved in the creation of a movie; the entire group of people involved in making the movie is called the film crew. The film crew includes the two top individuals involved in the film: the producer, who raises the money needed to make the movie, and the director, who is in charge of what the actors and the rest of the film crew do. The film crew includes many talented people who work as camera operators, make-up artists or create special effects.
Camera operators have a complex task and must be experts at using sophisticated camera equipment. Their expertise must be capable of getting good close-up shots of actors’ faces as well as handling panoramic scenes of major disasters.
Bluescreen technology is the technique that movie makers utilize to create those breathtaking scenes of actors hanging precipitously from ledges. The illusion is created in several stages.
In one step, camera operators film the background, such as the cliffs or side of the building. In another step, inside a film studio the actors provide the action for the scene in a safe and controlled environment. The filming is done with a blue or green screen as background. Finally, computer technology is used to remove the plain colored background and replace it with background filmed for the scene.
On those occasions when an action scene is filmed as live action, stunt doubles often perform the live action instead of actor. A stunt actor is highly experienced at performing dangerous tricks for movies. The stunt actor does the action with filming at a distance so movie goers don’t see the face. When the film is edited, the scenes performed by the actor are inserted. The illusion is that the movie character was performing all the action.
What is Food Poisoning?
Listen to the news these days and, more often than we’d care to hear, some food product is being recalled by the manufacturer due to the possibility of contamination by bacteria. Contaminated food is the cause of food poisoning and the most frequent bacterial contaminants are E. coli, the abbreviation for the full scientific name Escherichia coli, and Salmonella. The bacteria name of Salmonella is the straight line behind old jokes about eating at Sam and Ella’s café.
Food poisoning is a serious illness, especially for children and the elderly. While mild food poisoning caused by ingesting just a small amount of bacteria results in an upset stomach and a bit of diarrhea, a severe case of food poisoning also includes abdominal cramps and vomiting. Once the bacteria multiply in a person’s body, the individual gets sicker and prolonged vomiting and diarrhea result in dehydration, a life-threatening condition, and the loss of critical tissue salts. Individuals usually require hospitalization, intravenous (I-V) fluids and antibiotics. Food poisoning can be fatal; the news will report the number of fatalities associated with an outbreak of food poisoning.
The bacteria that cause food poisoning naturally live with farm animals without causing any harm. The possibility of food poisoning from Salmonella inside eggs has risen in the past decades. Researchers have discovered that hens are transmitting the bacteria to their eggs, which did not occur as often in the past. If meat, poultry and eggs are not properly refrigerated and cooked thoroughly enough to kill existing bacteria, live bacteria enter the human body when the food is ingested.
Humans rely on certain helpful strains of E. coli bacteria living in the intestines to maintain a healthy digestive system. However, harmful animal strains of E. coli cause illness when they reach the human intestinal tract and multiply. These harmful bacteria lodge in the human intestinal wall, attaching to human cells with their special surface proteins. The capsule-shaped bacteria also secrete a poison and damage the cells to which they are attached. Bloody diarrhea results as the affected intestinal cells die.
The Value of Urban Trees
Normally when we think of a forest we picture a wooded area somewhere with acres of trees. However, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) through the U.S. Forest Service has an office dedicated to its Urban and Community Forestry Program. This program, as its name implies, sponsors programs that promote the development of trees in city and town settings. Maintaining healthy urban trees is as important as maintaining healthy forests in rural areas.
One of the major benefits of urban trees is saving energy and reducing energy needs. Adding more trees in urban areas can eliminate the need for building new electricity generating plants. The USDA states that utility companies can afford to help communities add more trees to lower peak energy demands during the summer.
Summer temperatures in an urban area can be 3 to 8 degrees warmer than a nearby rural area; this is known as the urban heat island effect. The urban heat island effect results from the tremendous number of buildings and paved areas that absorb and retain heat. Shade keeps buildings and paved surfaces cooler in the summer. Properly placed trees around buildings can block the morning or afternoon sun from coming through windows and raising the inside temperature.
Urban trees also reduce overall air temperature through evapotranspiration. As part of the Water Cycle, transpiration is the process by which moisture is carried through plants from roots to small pores on the underside of leaves; the moisture changes to vapor and is released to the atmosphere. Evapotranspiration is the return of moisture to the air through evaporation from the soil and transpiration by plants. This process uses solar energy that otherwise would heat the air.
Urban trees also improve air quality in cities. Air pollution is responsible for many cases of asthma, coughing, headaches, other respiratory problems and even cancer. Trees are known to reduce dust and other similar particulates in the air. Of course, many people plant trees for their beauty. Trees add color, texture and natural lines to areas containing man-made structures.
The Roman Pantheon
Located in Rome, Italy, the Pantheon is one of the most famous buildings remaining from ancient civilizations. Most ancient temples were dedicated to a single god or goddess, such as the Greek Parthenon in Athens which was dedicated solely to the goddess Athena. However, the Pantheon once was the temple that honored all of the Roman gods as indicated by its name. The name derives from the Greek word pan which means “all” and the Greek word theos meaning “gods.”
The original Pantheon was built by Marcus Agrippa, a famous general and statesman during the reign of Octavian who ruled the Roman Empire using the name Caesar Augustus. Agrippa’s Pantheon was constructed in 25 B.C. Hadrian, the fourteenth emperor of the Roman Empire, succeeded his adoptive father, Emperor Trajan, in 117 A.D. Hadrian decided to construct a new Pantheon because Agrippa’s Pantheon was struck by lightning and destroyed during Trajan’s reign.
Hadrian was an unpopular ruler, perhaps because Romans questioned his right to rule as an adopted son. To gain favor with Romans and provide work, Hadrian began a construction plan to beautify Rome with new buildings which included reconstructing the Pantheon on a grand scale. Hadrian’s new Pantheon, which still stands today, features a perfectly rounded dome, a construction feat unequaled in its time. The impressive dome symbolized the perfect ideal of the Roman Empire as an umbrella over the vast lands until Roman control.
Prior civilizations, especially the Ancient Greeks, constructed buildings piecemeal with post-and-lintel construction. In this system, individual pieces of stone were joined together like a giant puzzle. The Romans somehow invented concrete which was highly durable and could be poured into a mold to create the desired shape. Concrete was used to create vaulted ceilings and the dome of the Pantheon.
Modern architects and structural engineers marvel at the strength of Roman concrete which built structures that have endured for over 2,000 years.
On Their Toes
The former Soviet Union produced two of the world’s most famous ballet performers, Rudolf Nureyev and Mikhail Baryshnikov. Ballet dancing is a classical form of dance that traces its roots to Italian royalty in the 1500s. Ballet is characterized by combining classic dance movements into a fluid and graceful performance. These movements include high leg
positions while dancers are balanced on the tips of their toes. There are many pieces of world renowned classical music that were written to accompany ballet dancing. Ballet movements have become an important part of modern dance as performed by prominent artistic dance troupes today.
Rudolf Nureyev was born in 1938 in Siberia. Growing up during World War II, Nureyev could not enter ballet studies at the Leningrad Choreographic School until 1955. He then danced with the Kirov Ballet but, when an international tour was scheduled for the dance troupe, Nureyev was considered too rebellious to represent the ideals of the ruling Communist Party abroad. Nureyev did not dance outside the Soviet Union until 1961 when his violation of Soviet rules while performing in Paris led to threats against his life by Soviet rulers. While in Paris he defected from the Soviet Union.
Nureyev quickly gained an international reputation and maintained his role as a top ballet dancer until 1980 when his strength and health began to fail. Beginning in 1983 he worked as the director of the Paris Opera Ballet while continuing to perform. Nureyev died in 1992.
Mikhail Baryshnikov was born in the country of Latvia in 1948 when the country was part of the Soviet Union. When he was twelve he began learning ballet and four years later he was attending ballet school in St. Petersburg, Russia and winning international dance competitions.
Baryshnikov was invited to join the prestigious Bolshoi Ballet and while on tour in Canada in 1974, he defected from the Soviet Union, seeking political asylum in Canada. Soon he was a principal dancer with the American Ballet Theatre and in 1986 he became a naturalized American citizen. Baryshnikov became a household name during the extended Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union. In 1980 Baryshnikov traded his role as dancer to become Artistic Director of the American Ballet Theatre. Baryshnikov occasionally still dances and his 1977 televised performance of The Nutcracker is an American holiday favorite.
A Growing Puppy
Dogs come in many different sizes, shapes and colors depending upon the breed. Yet no matter the breed, all puppies follow a common development into adult dogs. There are seven stages in the development of a puppy into a young adult dog. The growing up process requires six to eighteen months in total depending on the breed.
Puppies are born blind and deaf but during the first two to three weeks puppies begin to notice light and sound. Newborn pups don’t have much fur so they lay piled together to keep each other warm. Pups rely on their mother for food and, like other animals, they instinctively suckle. Newborn pups can’t move around. The second stage of growth happens when the puppy is two to four weeks old. Its eyes begin to open; the puppy begins to grow fur; and gets its first “baby” teeth.
Stage three occurs when the puppy is four to twelve weeks of age. The puppy can walk, see and hear better. It starts playing with its littermates and they often “play bite” or “mouth” each other. They quickly learn not to bite too hard. Early in stage three is a good time to start socializing a puppy. This means that people should start to gently hug and play with a puppy so it starts to form a bond with humans. Around week six or seven the puppy should move from mother’s milk to eating solid dog food. Puppies can be placed in their new home after they are weaned.
Stage four lasts from age two to three months. The young inexperienced puppy may be frightened by strange sounds and sudden movements. The puppy is mature enough to be housebroken at this time. Stage five lasts from age three to four months. This stage is like a human being a toddler. Training and more socialization of the puppy should happen. The puppy should have a collar and leash. Stage six is called the “brat stage” and lasts until about age six months. Puppies will try to “play bite” humans and this should not be allowed. At this age puppies need to chew so they can lose their baby teeth. Be sure the puppy has lots of chew toys!
Stage seven is like adolescence in humans. Pups have lots of energy and this is a good time to start special training like agility or herding.
On Teaching Art
The best things in an artist's work are so much a matter of intuition, that there is much to be said for the point of view that would altogether discourage intellectual inquiry into artistic phenomena on the part of the artist. Intuitions are shy things and apt to disappear if looked into too closely. And there is undoubtedly a danger that too much knowledge and training may supplant the natural intuitive feeling of a student, leaving only a cold knowledge of the means of expression in its place. For the artist, if he has the right stuff in him, has a consciousness, in doing his best work, of something, as Ruskin has said, "not in him but through him." He has been, as it were, but the agent through which it has found expression.
Talent can be described as "that which we have," and Genius as "that which has us." Now, although we may have little control over this power that "has us," and although it may be as well to abandon oneself unreservedly to its influence, there can be little doubt as to its being the business of the artist to see to it that his talent be so developed, that he may prove a fit instrument for the expression of whatever it may be given him to express; while it must be left to his individual temperament to decide how far it is advisable to pursue any intellectual analysis of the elusive things that are the true matter of art.
Provided the student realizes this, and that art training can only deal with the perfecting of a means of expression and that the real matter of art lies above this and is beyond the scope of teaching, he cannot have too much of it. For although he must ever be a child before the influence that moves him, if it is not with the knowledge of the grown man that he takes off his coat and approaches the craft of painting or drawing, he will be poorly equipped to make them a means of conveying to others in adequate form the things he may wish to express. Great things are only done in art when the creative instinct of the artist has a well-organized executive faculty at its disposal.
A Career in the Video Game Industry
Do you love to play video games? Are you creative, dedicated, and determined to remain young at heart? Then a career as a video game designer may be the ideal career for you. It’s a competitive business that can be difficult to break into; but like all businesses, there is always room for innovative new talent.
There are two basic roles when it comes to creating video games ― game design and game development ― and they represent two distinct career paths. Game designers are responsible for coming up with new game concepts. They figure out the storylines (for games that involve stories) and how the mechanics of the game will work. Game developers do the actual hands-on work of making the games, which can include anything and everything from animation to computer programming. The designer gives the developer input and direction; but the hands-on perspective of the developer often allows him or her to make improvements to the original game design. While they have very different roles, Game designers and game developers work closely together, and both are equally important to the finished product.
In addition to loving to play video games, certain personality traits lend themselves more than others to a career in the video game industry. Video games are created by teams, so strong communication skills are a must. A strong attention to detail and an ability to work under pressure are both also important. So is the ability to figure out whether or not a game, or an idea for a game, is a good one or a bad one. If you love playing video games, play a wide variety of games, and play often then this is a skill that often comes with time and experience.
The most common path to finding a place in the video game field is to take courses related to game design at college. A strong understanding of coding can also be useful. Internships or actual jobs will give you on-the-job experience. Perhaps one day you would like to be in charge of your own video game company; working for a few years for a large, established company will give you a good foundation for and understanding of the business.
Identifying Waterfowl
The experienced waterfowl observer is able to identify birds when they are in the air, on
the water, and on the ground. Differences in size, shape, plumage patterns and colors, wing beat, flocking behavior, voice, and habitat all help to distinguish one species from another.
Flock maneuvers in the air are also clues. Mallards, pintails, and wigeon form loose groups; teal and shovelers flash by in small, compact bunches; at a distance, canvasbacks shift from waving lines to temporary V's.
Closer up, individual silhouettes are important. Variations of head shapes and sizes, lengths of wings and tails, and fat bodies or slim can be seen.
Within shotgun range, color areas can be important. Light conditions might make them look different, but their size and location are positive keys. The sound of their wings can help as much as their calls. Flying goldeneyes make a whistling sound; wood ducks move with a swish; canvasbacks make a steady rushing sound. Not all ducks quack; many whistle, squeal, or grunt.
Although not a hard and fast rule, different species tend to use different types of habitat. Puddle ducks like shallow marshes and creeks while divers prefer larger, deeper, and more open waters.
The Origin of Baseball
Games resembling baseball in the United States have been referenced as far back as the 18th century. Baseball as we know it today is derived from two English games. Rounders was a children’s game that was brought to New England by the early colonials. Rounders was very similar to baseball. Two teams competed with each other. The game was played by hitting a small ball with the rounded end of a plastic or metal bat, and points were scored when players ran around the four bases on the field. Cricket, another bat and ball game, is also played between two teams, but includes the use of the wicket, which is a target for the bowler (what we call the pitcher in baseball today.)
By the time America won its independence from England, variations of these two ancestor games were being played by children and college teams alike. The game became particularly popular as a spectator pastime in industrialized cities. The sport of baseball as we know it today began to take shape when the New York Knickerbocker Baseball Club was formed in September 1845. Alexander Joy Cartwright, a volunteer firefighter and a bank clerk by profession, was the first to codify a new set of rules for the game, which included the use of a diamond-shaped infield, foul lines, and the three-strike rule. Cartwright’s modern and American version of baseball also forbid the players to tag runners by throwing balls at them. These changes quickened the pace of the sport, and differentiated it from both Rounders and Cricket.
Dragonflies
Have you ever been outside in the middle of July and seen swarms of dragonflies? Dragonflies are large and strong. They have big, compound eyes, which means that each eye is made up of thousands of tiny eyes, allowing the dragonfly to see in all directions. They are easily recognizable because of their size, and because their large wings are always held out straight, both while in flight and while resting.
Dragonflies congregate to hunt, catch and eat insects. They can look a bit like an alien invasion, but dragonflies are harmless to humans; they neither bite nor sting. In fact, you could even say that they are helpful, since they eat the insects that tend to annoys us the most, like gnats, mosquitoes, and flies.
Dragonflies are found all over the world, almost always near water. Dragonflies like warm weather; in fact, you won’t see them at all until temperatures reach at least the mid 60s. They need to warm up in the sun during the mornings before they take off, and they fly ― occasionally landing somewhere for a rest ― for most of the day.
Dragonflies are some of the earliest flying creatures to inhabit our planet, and belong to an ancient insect group called the odonata. Pehistoric dragonflies had a wingspan of up to 2 feet. The dragonfly is a great flyer; in fact, they fly almost all the time. They can hover like helicopters, fly super fast (reaching speeds of over 30 miles per hour), and can even fly backwards. As insects, they have six legs, but their long, heavy bodies and long wings make walking awkward for them, and they’re not very good at it, so they do almost everything mid-flight. They catch their prey while flying by making a basket with their legs. Then they swoop down at their prey, catching it in the basket and biting it to hold it in place. More often than not, they eat it while still in flight.
The Second Brain
Have you ever been nervous and had the sensation that is referred to as having “butterflies in the stomach?” Or felt fear or shock in your gut almost simultaneously with
experiencing a thought or hearing bad news? These feelings come from a network of neurons (specialized cells for transmitting nerve impulses) in the lining of our guts called the enteric nervous system. In fact, there are so many nerve cells in our gastrointestinal tract (about a hundred million) that some scientists have nicknamed it our "second brain." Though it has no role in conscious thoughts or decision-making, this second brain plays a role in both our mental state and in our physical health.
Most of these neurons are occupied on a daily basis in breaking down food, absorbing nutrients, and expelling waste, jobs that require chemical processing, mechanical mixing, and rhythmic muscle contractions ― all things that take place independently of the brain in our heads. But scientists think that there is more going on in this second brain than controlling the digestive process. In fact, about 90 percent of the fibers in the primary visceral nerve, the vagus, carry information from the “brain” in our gut to the brain in our heads, rather than the other way around, which suggests that our gut is informing our state of mind. But what information is our gut sending to our brain?
One theory is that part of this second brain’s job is to eavesdrop on the trillions of microbes that live in our gut. The human gut is essentially its own ecosystem, which means that the microbes within it are in competition to survive. For example, some microbes thrive in an environment where there is a lot of mucus, and others thrive in an environment where mucus is sparse. Our central nervous system ― which is ruled by the brain in our heads ― can regulate how much mucus is lining the gut, which suggests that our second brain could communicate information to the brain in our heads, which could then make changes in our gut environment that would favor beneficial microbes over harmful ones, all without us even realizing it.
But there seems to be more going on between the two brains than this kind of monitoring. In fact, recent evidence has suggested that the microbes in our gut can influence our perception of the world and alter our behavior. For example, microbes in the gut influence how much of the neurotransmitter serotonin is in the body. The amount of serotonin in our bodies determines how happy that we feel.
So is there anything we can do to make this second brain function at its peak? The microbes in your gut change over time, both with dietary changes and with our overall state of health. Just like taking care of the brain in your head, your second brain will be healthiest when you eat healthy foods, get regular exercise, and sleep well every night.
Insurance Explained
A serious problem like a car accident or a house fire can be very expensive to recover from, and many people do not have access to the kind of money that fixing these problems requires. Unfortunately, though, any of these things can happen to any of us at any time, whether we can afford them or not. So what do people do to help minimize the risk of what could be a financial catastrophe? What most people do ― and what, in many cases, the law requires people to do ― is to purchase something called insurance.
Insurance is a contract between a person (called the policyholder) and an insurance company. The contract says that if the policyholder pays a certain amount of money on a regular, recurring basis (usually monthly or quarterly) then the insurance company will pay a certain amount of money to help the policyholder recover from a loss, like a car accident or a house fire. Usually, before the insurance company will pay for a loss, the policyholder is required to pay a certain amount of money called a deductible, which covers part of the loss. Generally, the lower the deductible, the higher the regular, recurring payments, and vice versa.
Purchasing insurance can be controversial. On the one hand, not everyone experiences a car accident or a devastating house fire. But without insurance, many families would be financially devastated if they did experience these things. For that reason, insurance is a kind of risk management. People who have cars and houses are at risk for these problems; purchasing insurance decreases the extent of their own financial responsibility for these problems, so most people consider insurance a worthwhile expense.
Project: Ask your parent or a grown-up that you know well if they have ever had to file an insurance claim. What happened? How did it turn out?
The Study of Furniture
To try to write a history of furniture in a fairly short space is almost as hard as the square peg and round hole problem. No matter how one tries, it will not fit. One has to leave out so much of importance, so much of historic and artistic interest, so much of the life of the people that helps to make the subject vivid, and has to take so much for granted, that the task seems almost impossible. In spite of this I shall try to give in the following pages a general but necessarily short review of the field, hoping that it may help those wishing to furnish their homes in some special period style. The average person cannot study all the subject thoroughly, but it certainly adds interest to the problems of one's own home to know something of how the great periods of decoration grew one from another, how the influence of art in one country made itself felt in the next, molding and changing taste and educating the people to a higher sense of beauty.
It is the lack of general knowledge which makes it possible for furniture built on amazingly bad lines to be sold masquerading under the name of some great period. The customer soon becomes bewildered, and, unless he has a decided taste of his own, is apt to get something which will prove a white elephant on his hands. One must have some standard of comparison, and the best and simplest way is to study the great work of the past. To study its rise and climax rather than the decline; to know the laws of its perfection so that one can recognize the exaggeration which leads to degeneracy. This ebb and flow is most interesting: the feeling the way at the beginning, ever growing surer and surer until the high level of perfection is reached; and then the desire to "gild the lily" leading to over-ornamentation, and so to decline. However, the germ of good taste and the sense of truth and beauty is never dead, and asserts itself slowly in a transition period, and then once more one of the great periods of decoration is born.
There are several ways to study the subject, one of the pleasantest naturally being travel, as the great museums, palaces, and private collections of Europe offer the widest field. In this country, also, the museums and many private collections are rich in treasures, and there are many proud possessors of beautiful isolated pieces of furniture. If one cannot see originals the libraries will come to the rescue with many books showing research and a thorough knowledge and appreciation of the beauty and importance of the subject in all its branches.
What Do Humans Have in Common with Cats?
After studying the results of 3,000 cat personality tests, researchers in Australia have identified five human-like personality traits in cats. The questionnaire was based on one used by the Cat Tracker Project, an effort that was launched to figure out how domestic cats move through our environments when allowed to roam freely out of doors. After evaluating the survey responses, researchers determined the top five feline personality traits to be: Skittishness, Spontaneity, Outgoingness, Friendliness, and Dominance.
These personality traits can be mapped to traits frequently seen in humans. For example, skittishness can be equated to neuroticism (a tendency towards moodiness, worry, and anxiety); outgoingness is similar to extroversion (directing attention to things other than oneself); and friendliness is much like agreeableness (being kind, sympathetic, cooperative, warm, and considerate).
Two significant ways in which cats differ from humans are in the areas of dominance and spontaneity. Cats are much more likely to display these personality traits simply because they are cats; while in humans, these two particular traits vary enormously from individual to individual.
Calling All Baseball Fans
Baseball fans are a dedicated group of people and still flock to the ball park whenever they can. The avid fan has a collection of baseball memorabilia that came from special promotions at the ball park. One of the special theme days at the ball park used to be "Father-Son Day" and during this promotion, boys were given a free baseball. The free promotional premiums handed out today aren't as expensive but fans treasure their tokens and these promotions are successful at bringing fans to the ballpark.
Promotional days at the baseball park have a theme for the day.
Some of the popular themes are Opening Day or a Back to School promotion. Other kinds of themes are based on nostalgia like 70s Night or Turn Back The Clock. Another type of promotion encourages groups of people to come, for example, a “Take HER Out To The Ball Game” special price offer for ladies. Special events aimed at children can happen before the game. Lots of times kids can meet players on the field and interact with them or team mascots.
A fair number of promotions are simply a way of handing out a token with advertising on it. But the promotions that come from the home team are designed to boost enthusiasm, team loyalty, and ultimately ticket sales. Major league teams need loyal fans who continue to love the game of baseball. Whether it’s hats, tee shirts, or key chains, all of this branded and logo merchandise has meaning as marketing promotions and gets the team's image and name out to the public eye. The baseball teams want to keep fans enthusiastic and returning to the baseball park.
The Clock behind Your Cell Phone
For many Americans carrying a cell phone has replaced the need for wearing a wrist watch. If you need to know what time it is, just flip open your cell phone. But have you ever wondered how your cell phone knows what the correct time is? The sophisticated technology behind the time in your cell phone is the atomic clock. Atomic clocks allow for precise
synchronization of timing across the earth and into space that powers the Internet, GPS devices and all satellite communications. Atomic clocks for home and office use receive signals from the U.S. Atomic Clock and automatically set the correct time, date, and year.
The atomic clock was made possible by research performed during the 1930s and 1940s to
improve radio communications for the U.S. military during World War II. In 1949, the U.S. National Bureau of Standards (now called the National Institute of Standards and Technology) announced the world’s first atomic clock. Throughout the 1950s and 1960s the National Bureau of Standards regularly replaced and advanced the models of atomic clocks regulating time in the United States. The standard atomic clock for the United States called NIST-F1 (pictured thanks to www.tf.nist.gov) was introduced in 1991 is accurate to 1 second every 20 million years.
Besides the U.S. standards, world time is standardized by 80 atomic clocks that are scattered across 24 countries. Coordinated Universal Time, as this standardization is called, is maintained by the Bureau International de l’Heure (International Bureau of Time) in Paris, France.
Coffee around the World
The coffee beverage that Americans so enjoy comes from a long process that begins with a plant that grows in mountains near the equator. This is why you hear the term “mountain grown” in commercials about coffee. The coffee plant produces a fruit like a cherry. The coffee bean used to make coffee is the like the cherry pit inside the cherry fruit.
The first step in making coffee is roasting the beans, heating them in an oven. How long the beans are roasted determines the color and flavor of the coffee. A longer roasting time produces a darker color and a bolder flavor. Roasted beans are ground up to make the coffee on the grocery shelf.
Coffee is brewed with water to make the beverage we drink. There are three methods for brewing coffee popular in different parts of the world.
Turkish coffee is boiled made in a special pot called an ibrik. Boiling water is combined with finely ground coffee beans to make a small batch of coffee beverage. Turkish coffee has a very strong flavor.
Espresso coffee is made using a pressure machine. This pressure method forces boiling water through the coffee grounds. Espresso coffee is served in small cups because it is so strong.
Most Americans drink coffee made by the gravity drip method. Hot water drips through the ground coffee beans, as in a Bunn coffee maker that is seen in most restaurants. The strength and flavor of drip coffee is controlled by the amount of ground coffee and the amount of water.
Tails Matter When You’re Talking About Deer
The whitetail deer of North America is instantly recognized by the flash of the erect fluffy white tail and white rump that indicate the flight response of this species of deer. It’s almost comical to watch these deer in flight with those white tails flagging their every move in open country. There are some 30 subspecies of whitetail deer scattered
all over the United States and southern Canada.
A deer species related to whitetails is known as mule deer because this species’ large ears reminded early settlers of a mule’s ears. The mule deer’s large ears distinguish it
from other deer species. Mule deer are found in the western United States and Canada in steep, rocky, sparsely vegetated open areas, and in prairie or desert regions. Mule deer are gray-brown in color and feature whitish legs and a white patch on the rump.
The tail of the mule deer is white with a black tip and is generally kept in a drooped position. Unlike a whitetail deer, a mule deer never flags its tail. The mule deer’s antlers branch into two equal forks and the rack of the buck (male deer) is usually smaller than a whitetail’s. The mule deer has an unusual bounding leap that can move the animal nearly 25 feet at a time over rough terrain. This movement that uses all four feet simultaneously is called stotting and allows a mule deer run at about 45 miles per hour. With their stiff-legged bounce, it seems like they are on springs.
The Heisman Trophy
The Heisman Trophy is awarded annually to one outstanding football player on a college team in the United States. The winner of the Heisman Trophy is virtually guaranteed a position on a National Football League professional team and many former Heisman Trophy winners have become famous professional players. The Heisman Trophy was created by members of the Downtown Athletic Club of New York City and the first trophy was presented in 1935.
Club members decided to make the trophy as an action figure statue cast in bronze. Ed Smith, a star player on the New York University football team in 1934, served as the model for sculptor Frank Eliscu, who designed the trophy. With the assistance of the head coach of Fordham University and some of his players, Eliscu was able to capture the real life action of the game in his bronze statue of a charging football player. In 1936, that the trophy was named after the football genius John W. Heisman.
Only one company supplies the Heisman Memorial Trophy and that is Herff Jones Company of Indiana, Inc. whose headquarters are in Indianapolis. This company employs 3,500 people who make commemorative items for schools as well as a variety of other items, like choir and judicial robes. The company offers a full line of high school class rings, diplomas and diploma covers, and all types of paper memorabilia relating to high school graduation like invitations and announcements.
Quilting in Pioneer Days
Pioneer quilts had a particular design or pattern and each pattern had a name. As settlers moved westward, the names attached to the patterns changed. The Carolina Rose of the East Coast became the Prairie Rose of the Midwest. The biblical name Jacob’s Ladder used in New England evolved to Stepping Stones in Virginia and Tail of Benjamin’s Kite, after Benjamin Franklin’s experiments, in Pennsylvania.
What didn’t change from location to location was the lack of fabric in the early days of America. Calicos, cotton fabrics with small flowers printed on them, were imported from England and bolts of fabric were difficult to transport over the mountains to western settlements.
Money was tight and families needed to “make do” with whatever they had so women saved every possible scrap of fabric for reuse. After adult clothing was sized down for children, any remaining fabric or outgrown clothes were recycled into quilts. Pieced quilts of the era featured smaller and smaller pieces of fabric in the patchwork design. Thrifty women were able to decorate their homes with colorful and intricate quilts
made from just the tiniest bits of fabric.
When steamboat and rail transportation reached the Mississippi River and beyond, fabrics could finally reach the new settlements. At the same time, the Industrial Revolution introduced textile mills to New England which processed cotton grown on plantations in the Southern states into cloth. Even though quilters could purchase material they continued to work with small pieces of fabric to make traditional quilt patterns.
T-Shirts in Style
If you are like most Americans, you love to wear T-shirts. Today men can be considered stylishly dressed wearing the right T-shirt under a sports coat instead of a traditional dress shirt and tie.
Undershirts for the American male did not look like the T-shirt we know today until after the First World War (1914 – 1918). During World War I American soldiers were wearing old-fashioned woolen uniforms during the summer while European soldiers wore cotton undershirts that were significantly cooler. During the 1920s the word T-shirt was added to the American dictionary. By the Second World War, both the U.S. Army and the U. S. Navy were issuing white cotton T-shirts as standard underwear.
The T-shirt was considered solely as underwear until the 1950s. In those days, even the word underwear was never mentioned in polite company. So it was quite shocking to see 1950s screen legends such as Marlon Brando and James Dean wearing a just a T-shirt!
But by 1955 it became socially acceptable for young men to wear just a tee shirt without a regular shirt covering it.
James Dean made this style "cool" for teenage males across the United States.
Today the T-shirt is part of the American way of life. People wear a T- shirt that promotes their favorite rock band or sports team. Americans wear a T-shirt advertising a place where they have visited. T-shirts with the image of every Disney character are worn by children of all ages. In fact, you can find a T-shirt with every cartoon character that ever graced the screen on a T-shirt somewhere.
Volcanoes in Costa Rica
Costa Rica is a Central American country that attracts tens of thousands of U.S. tourists every year since it can easily be reached by plane from major U.S. cities. Costa Rica is a safe country for tourists to visit because Costa Rica maintains a good relationship with U.S. government and industry. Located just 90 miles northwest of San Jose, the capital city, the Arenal Volcano is a one of many active volcanoes in the mountains of Costa Rica.
This mountain volcano is about 5,500 feet tall and has been an active volcano for thousands of years. Scientists estimate that the Arenal Volcano began erupting some 7,000 years ago and it remains the most active volcano in Costa Rica. On July 29, 1968 a major eruption blew off the entire west side of the mountain peak. Over the next several days three new craters formed in this west peak area of the volcano while the ensuing lava flows destroyed two villages at the base of the mountain.
Since this eruption, the volcano has been continuously active with minor lava flows emanating from vents created by the 1968 eruption. Lava is magma, the molten or partially molten rock that forms beneath the Earth's surface, which reaches the surface. Scientists have also discovered ancient human footprints in the lava in Costa Rica that date back to 10,000 B.C.
The Arenal National Park was created in 1991 and contains some 30,000 acres. Tourists can stay at a number of hotels and lodges around the national park that have excellent views of the volcano. There are a variety of ways to experience the volcano including bus tours, hiking and bicycle trips.
X Games
The X Games are a relatively new forum for athletic competition based upon the structure of the Olympic Games. While the Olympics have been in existence for thousands of years, the first X Games were held at Mountain Resort in Big Bear Lake, California in 1997. Athletes in both games compete for Gold, Silver and Bronze medals, indicating first, second and third place in an event. Olympic athletes receive only a medal but X Games winners also receive prize money.
The events at the X Games are all modern and didn’t exist even just 25 years ago. The Winter X Games include new sports like snowboarding and snowmobiling. The Summer X Games focus on skateboarding, BMX bicycle and MotoX competitions. The X Games are thrilling to watch. The daring athletes do tricks high in the air that defy gravity and keep the audience at the edge of their seats.
The X in X Games stands for extreme. While the Winter and Summer Olympic Games look to find the fastest and strongest athletes in traditional events like running, broad jump, discus throwing and swimming, the X Games emphasize daring tricks using equipment that is cutting edge. Who would have thought that doing air tricks while on a small bicycle could be anything but a circus act?
But these unusual new sports have gained wide acceptance and the ESPN covers the X Games live. Maybe the skateboarders look like they’ve just come off the street but bicycle and BMX riders are covered with advertising just like NASCAR drivers. The X Games are big business.
A Mysterious Photo
Amelia Earhart was already famous for being the first woman to fly across the Atlantic. But in 1937, determined to be the first woman to fly around the world and with Fred Noonan as her navigator, Earhart took off from Miami, Florida. She got as far as New Guinea in the South Pacific, intending to fly to Howland Island in the Pacific Ocean the next morning. But after they took off from New Guinea, they disappeared. Neither Earhart nor Noonan were ever heard from again, and they were presumed dead. The official investigation concluded that their plane crashed somewhere in the Pacific Ocean. No remains were ever found.
But in 2017, a mysterious photograph was discovered in an old file in the National Archives, suggesting that the aviator and her navigator had, in fact, survived the crash. The photo, which experts have declared to be both legitimate and undoctored, is said to show both Earhart and Noonan. An investigative team working for the History Channel suggested that the photo may have been taken “by someone who was spying for the U.S. on Japanese military activity in the Pacific.” The Japanese government, contacted for a statement, indicated that they had no record of Earhart or Noonan ever having been taken prisoner.
Did Earhart and Noonan survive? If they did, why wouldn’t they have made some attempt to contact friends or family back home? Even if it does turn out that the flying duo survived their crash, the mystery of what happened to Amelia Earhart is far from over.
NASCAR: Then and Now
NASCAR is one of America’s most popular spectator sports and a multi-billion- dollar industry. Its catalyst was William “Bill” France Sr. (1909-1992). Originally from Washington D.C., the mechanic and auto-repair shop owner moved to Daytona Beach, Florida in the mid-1930s. There, France became involved in racing cars and promoting races. At that time, there was no single entity codifying and enforcing the rules of car racing, and cheating by race promoters was rampant. France called upon members of the racing community to discuss the situation, and NASCAR, the result of his initiative, was officially incorporated in 1921. As its first president, France played a key role in creating the sport of car racing as we know it today.
When NASCAR began, drivers raced cars that were just like people drove everyday, though today NASCAR cars differ a great deal from dealers’ “stock” cars, employing many modifications and technologies that improve both performance and safety. The first NASCAR race ― Strictly Stock ― was held on June 19, 1949 at the Charlotte Speedway in North Carolina, in front of approximately 13,000 fans. Glenn Dunnaway was the first to finish the 200-lap race in his Ford; but it was Jim Roper (and his Lincoln) who collected the $2,000 prize when the discovery of illegal rear springs on his vehicle caused Dunnaway to be disqualified.
The first NASCAR-based track was the Darlington Raceway in South Carolina, which opened in 1951. Additional raceways were opened, including Florida’s Daytona International Speedway in 1959. That year, Lee Petty won the first Daytona 500, which went on to become NASCAR’s annual season-opening race and one of its premiere events; but it was twenty years before the first Daytona 500 was broadcast on National Television, an event whose popularity was boosted when drivers Cale Yarborough and Donnie and Bobby Allison got into a fistfight on camera at the end of the race.
France’s son took over the presidency of NASCAR from his father in 1972, growing NASCAR’s regional popularity into a sport that is now appreciated globally. NASCAR has grown to include three national race series as well as four regional and two international race series. NASCAR has also become big business, with individual corporations now spending from 5 to 35 million dollars in corporate sponsorships per car.
What is an MRI?
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (commonly known as an MRI) is a way to make pictures of organs and structures inside the body using a magnetic field and pulses of radio wave energy. It works because the human body is composed mostly of water, and the nuclei of Hydrogen ― one of the molecular components of water ― become aligned in a magnetic field. When the magnetic field is turned on, the protons in the nucleus of an atom flip the direction in which they spin; when the field is turned off, the protons gradually return to their normal spin, a process called precession. This process of the protons returning to their normal spin produces a radio signal that can be detected by the scanner and converted into a digital image.
An MRI can show things that cannot be shown by other procedures such as an X-ray, an ultrasound, or a computer tomography (CT) scan. It can detect problems like tumors, internal bleeding, injury, diseases of the blood vessel, problems with spinal discs, or infection. It is also preferable to a CT scan, as it produces no ionizing radiation.
The standard MRI is a closed machine that contains a strong magnet. The patient lies on their back on a table, and the head, chest, and arms may be strapped down, as it is important that the patient lie completely still. The table slides into the enclosed space containing the magnet. The area to be scanned may be wrapped in a device called a coil, and depending on the reason for the scan, a special strap that senses breathing or heartbeat is sometimes used to ensure the machine takes the scan at the optimal time.
An MRI has no known harmful effects, though the powerful magnet may affect pacemakers, artificial limbs, or other medical devices containing iron.
The Boston Terrier
The Boston Terrier breed has been around for about a century. Though they were bred to be fighting dogs ― hence their tough, stocky, and muscular little bodies ― they actually make very gentle and affectionate companions, and are particularly well-suited for the elderly or for people who live in apartments. They are extremely intelligent and sometimes stubborn, and can occasionally wreak havoc in the household when enjoying a sudden burst of energy.
In the 19th century, a common nickname for the Boston Terrier was American Gentleman, possibly partly because their sleek, black and white markings are reminiscent of a tuxedo. Boston Terriers are brachycephalic: their lower jaw is in proportion to their body, but because their upper jaw is shorter, their broad face looks “flattened.” Their black ears naturally stand erect, their tail is naturally short, and their widely-set eyes give them a sweet, puppy-like look. Though small dogs, they have an imposing presence. Their slightly arched and proud neckline, broad chest, and sturdy appearance suggests that a Boston Terrier is a force to be reckoned with.
If you are considering adopting a Boston Terrier, there are some other items that you should be aware of. Because of their short noses, Boston Terriers can have respiratory problems. They also can’t efficiently cool the air going into their lungs, so they can become overheated. His large eyes make him prone to corneal ulcers. They can also be prone to flatulence.
The exact origin of the Boston Terrier is unclear, though it is believed to have been a cross between a bulldog and an English White Terrier, a breed that is now extinct. There are several different versions of the origin story, but the only fact from them that can be verified for sure is that the dog from whom the breed we now know as a Boston Terrier was descended was named Judge. Judge reportedly had the characteristic blocky head of the Boston Terrier, but he was a brindle color, with a white streak down his face. And at 32 pounds, he was also considerably larger than the Boston Terrier that we know today. Subsequent breedings included white dogs, and French Bulldogs; but the earliest breedings were not done for appearance so much as they were for temperament; the earliest known ancestors of the Boston we know to today were bred for other characteristics, like disposition.
The name of the breed, like its physical characteristics, evolved over the years, and included “bullet heads,” “round-headed bull terriers,” “American terriers,” and “Boston bulldogs.” When 30 owners of Boston Bull Terriers form the American Bull Terrier Club in 1889, they called them Round Heads or Bull Terriers. But champions of the already established Bulldog objected, and they were a powerful contingent of the American Kennel Club (AKC). Not wishing to offend, the Boston Bull Terrier owners decided to call their dogs Boston Terriers. Sometimes also known then as Boston Bulls, the breed was officially recognized by the AKC in 1893, though at that time color and markings were not part of the standard; the distinctive color and markings of the breed as we know them today were written into the standard in the 20th century. The Boston Terrier was the first of only 10 breeds of dogs that were both created in America and recognized by the AKC.
On the Size of Nations

In time of peace the well-being of small nations is undoubtedly more general and more complete, but they are apt to suffer more acutely from the calamities of war than those great empires whose distant frontiers may for ages avert the presence of the danger from the mass of the people, which is therefore more frequently afflicted than ruined by the evil.
But in this matter, as in many others, the argument derived from the necessity of the case predominates over all others. If none but small nations existed, I do not doubt that mankind would be more happy and more free; but the existence of great nations is unavoidable.
This consideration introduces the element of physical strength as a condition of national prosperity. It profits a people but little to be affluent and free if it is perpetually exposed to be pillaged or subjugated; the number of its manufactures and the extent of its commerce are of small advantage if another nation has the empire of the seas and gives the law in all the markets of the globe. Small nations are often impoverished, not because they are small, but because they are weak; the great empires prosper less because they are great than because they are strong. Physical strength is therefore one of the first conditions of the happiness and even of the existence of nations. Hence it occurs that, unless very peculiar circumstances intervene, small nations are always united to large empires in the end, either by force or by their own consent: yet I am unacquainted with a more deplorable spectacle than that of a people unable either to defend or to maintain its independence.
Who was Confucius?
Believed to have been born in 551 B.C. in present- day Qufu, Shandong Province, China, not much is known of Confucius’ early life, and the things that are claimed to be “known” are contradictory. But whether he was born royal or born poor, one fact about Confucius remains undisputed: his lifetime coincided with a time of ideological crisis in China.
China had been ruled by the Chou Empire for 500 years, but it became threatened by civil unrest, which in turn threatened the values of the traditional Chinese culture. Confucius saw this as an opportunity to reinforce declining societal values like compassion and tradition. He promoted the love of others, in particular, the Golden Rule, which in modern society is known as “Do unto others as you would have others do unto you.”
Confucius was also a proponent of self-discipline, which were the foundation for his political beliefs. He saw humility and compassion as the fundamental required characteristics of a leader, and believed that leadership should always be by example.
Regarding right education, Confucius focused on Six Arts: archery, calligraphy, computation, music, chariot-driving, and ritual. He believed that the purpose of an educator was to teach people to live with integrity. In his own work as a teacher, Confucius worked to revive the Chinese societal values of benevolence, propriety, and ritual.
Confucius is believed to have written, edited, and/or revised several books which still influence people today, not just in China but throughout the western world, including Book of Odes, Book of Documents, and Spring and Autumn Annals. The book outlining his philosophical and political beliefs, Lunyu, however, was not written by him, but most likely compiled by his disciples and was published posthumously as one of the “Four Books” of Confucianism published under the title Sishu in 1190. At the time of his death, however, he Confucius did not believe that he had succeeded in impacting Chinese culture, but by the time of the Han Dynasty in the second century B.C., his ideas had become the state ideology. Today he is one of the best known teachers in Chinese history.
The Importance of Maritime Strategy
By maritime strategy we mean the principles which govern a war in which the sea is a substantial factor. Naval strategy is but that part of it which determines the movements of the fleet when maritime strategy has determined what part the fleet must play in relation to the action of the land forces; for it scarcely needs saying that it is almost impossible that a war can be decided by naval action alone. Unaided, naval pressure can only work by a process of exhaustion. Its effects must always be slow, and so galling both to our own commercial community and to neutrals, that the tendency is always to accept terms of peace that are far from conclusive. For a firm decision a quicker and more drastic form of pressure is required. Since men live upon the land and not upon the sea, great issues between nations at war have always been decided—except in the rarest cases—either by what your army can do against your enemy's territory and national life or else by the fear of what the fleet makes it possible for your army to do.
The paramount concern, then, of maritime strategy is to determine the mutual relations of your army and navy in a plan of war. When this is done, and not till then, naval strategy can begin to work out the manner in which the fleet can best discharge the function assigned to it.
The problem of such co-ordination is one that is susceptible of widely varying solutions. It may be that the command of the sea is of so urgent an importance that the army will have to devote itself to assisting the fleet in its special task before it can act directly against the enemy's territory and land forces; on the other hand, it may be that the immediate duty of the fleet will be to forward military action ashore before it is free to devote itself whole-heartedly to the destruction of the enemy's fleets. The crude maxims as to primary objects which seem to have served well enough in continental warfare have never worked so clearly where the sea enters seriously into a war. In such cases it will not suffice to say the primary object of the army is to destroy the enemy's army, or that of the fleet to destroy the enemy's fleet. The delicate interactions of the land and sea factors produce conditions too intricate for such blunt solutions. Even the initial equations they present are too complex to be reduced by the simple application of rough-and-ready maxims. Their right handling depends upon the broadest and most fundamental principles of war, and it is as a standpoint from which to get a clear and unobstructed view of the factors in their true relations that a theory of war has perhaps its highest value.
What’s a Superpower?
A “superpower” is a country that has so much military, political, and economic power, that it has considerable influence over other countries. While pundits will occasionally declare one country or another “the next superpower,” America is clearly dominant, and there is every indication that it will remain so.
The U.S. military is the most powerful military in the world. Of all the money invested into building military power around the globe, the U.S. spends 37% of it. The U.S. military is dominant on land, sea, air, and space, which serves as a significant deterrent to other nations who might otherwise consider attacking us.
There are many ways to wield political influence. One way is by giving other countries money, which is called “foreign aid.” The U.S. gives substantially more financial assistance to foreign countries than other would-be superpowers. In return, the recipients tend to remain staunch U.S. allies. Another way to wield political influence is simply to maintain political stability within one’s own country. The U.S. Constitution pre-dates every other working national constitution in the world, and our Constitution continues to evolve with the changing values of our people. Not only is the U.S. free of any significant political unrest; it also attracts four times more immigrants than any other country in the world. The takeaway: the global perception is overwhelmingly that life in the U.S. is good.
When it comes to economic superiority, economic growth is only part of the story. For example, China is experiencing a phenomenal economic growth rate, but the average American is far better off financially than the average Chinese citizen. Consider the following figures. A country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is the total dollar value of all goods and services produced over a specific time period. In 2013, the U.S. GDP per capita (per person) was $53,042; the GDP in China during the same time period was $6,807. What this means is that while China may be experiencing great economic growth, its citizens are not. Furthermore, the whole world continues to have faith in the American dollar. Over 80% of all financial transactions worldwide are conducted in U.S. dollars.
The U.S. scores highest in all three requirements to be a superpower, but its superiority doesn’t end there. The U.S. is also the seat of technological innovation, and is home to 8 of the 9 largest tech companies in the world. America is the world’s #1 producer of oil and natural gas. And it boasts first class research universities and scientific institutions: 30% of all global research and development dollars are spent in the U.S. Not to put too fine a point on it: Americans enjoy a better quality of life than the citizens of any other country in the world.
American Culture
When we talk about “culture,” we are talking about anything and everything that has to do with how a population of people goes about their everyday life, including “religion, food, what we wear, how we wear it, our language, marriage, music, what we believe is right or wrong, how we sit at the table, how we greet visitors, how we behave with loved ones, and a million other things," said Cristina De Rossi, an anthropologist at Barnet and Southgate College in London.
The culture of the United States is extremely diverse, drawing its aspects from many other peoples.
One contributor to modern American culture are the Native American populations who lived on the continent before our country was formed. Another contributor is the culture of the English colonists dating from the early 1600s. Our culture has evolved with the influence of Native Americans, Latin Americans, Africans and Asians, and it continues to evolve people from other countries and other cultures continue to come live here. In fact, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, even despite controversy surrounding new immigrants and refugees, a new immigrant moves to the U.S. every 33 seconds.
The U.S. has been described as a “melting pot” of cultures, meaning that while immigrants often blend in with and adapt to American culture, they also contribute to it. The assimilation of immigrants into American culture can happen in different ways, and some groups keep certain aspects of their original culture, for example a language, a religion, or certain foods, while embracing the more generalized American culture with regards to how they work, where they live, and what they wear.
Did you know:
- The U.S. government does not recognize an official U.S. language. While 90% of the population speaks and understands some level of English, and most official business is conducted in English, almost every language in the world is spoken in the U.S.
- A country founded on the principle of religious freedom, the U.S. has no official religion. Though roughly 2/3 of Americans identify themselves as Christians, almost all known religion, including the lack of religion (i.e., agnosticism and atheism) are practiced in the U.S.
- The U.S. is considered a world leader in the production of mass media like television and movies, and accounts for about one-third of worldwide media and entertainment industry.
- American arts include the theatre (think Broadway in New York); folk art (quilting and other hand-crafted items); and many uniquely American styles of music (rhythm and blues, jazz, gospel, country and western, bluegrass, rock 'n' roll, and hip hop).
- The U.S. celebrates many holidays that are not celebrated anywhere else in the world: Independence Day (the 4th of July); Memorial Day; Labor Day; Thanksgiving; President’s Day; Veteran’s Day; and Martin Luther King Jr. Day.
Elvis Presley
Elvis Aaron Presley was born in Tupelo, Mississippi on January 8, 1935. Though from a relatively poor family, his parents were both loving and deeply religious. The family attended the Assembly of God Church, where he was influenced at a young age by gospel music. His mother gave him his first guitar for his eleventh birthday, and a few years later he won a high school talent show.
He graduated from high school with a dream of getting into the music business. He made his first demo record at what eventually became Sun Studio in 1953, and the record label owner, Sam Phillips, gave him support and guidance. Presley began touring and recording. His first single, “That’s All Right” was recorded in 1954.
By the following year, he was beginning to develop a following. Fans were captivated by his unique musical style, his stage presence, and his good looks. Presley signed with RCA Records, and began to experience success. In 1956 he had his first No. 1 single, “Heartbreak Hotel,” his first No. 1 album, Elvis Presley, and his first movie contract with Paramount Pictures, for whom he starred in Love Me Tender, a box office hit in 1956. Though his provocative dance style was a subject of some controversy, he became a popular guest on television variety shows.
Presley was drafted in 1957 and entered the Army in March of 1958, serving in Germany, where he met Priscilla Beaulieu, who was a teenager at the time. Presley left the Army in 1960 and resumed an active and successful show business career, recording music and starring and films like GI Blues (1960), Blue Hawaii (1961), Girls! Girls! Girls! (1962) and Viva Las Vegas (1964). Not always critical successes, his films, and their soundtracks, were always profitable. But by the late 1960s, his popularity seemed to be declining.
Presley married Priscilla in 1967, and their daughter, Lisa Marie, was born in 1968. But the marriage did not last. They divorced in 1973, with Priscilla receiving custody of Lisa Marie. During this time, Presley was plagued by a weight problem, a destructive lifestyle, and a prescription drug problem, for which he was eventually hospitalized. Still, Presley continued to tour and draw crowds.
Presley’s last concert was in June 1977, in Indianapolis, Indiana. Several months later he died in his Memphis mansion, Graceland, of heart failure. Only 42, it was eventually determined that his death was caused by his prescription drug use. Presley was buried at Graceland, near the gravesites of his parents and grandmother.
Presley, his 18 No. 1 hits, and all of his gold and platinum albums had an indelible effect on the trajectory of rock 'n' roll music in America. He also left his mark on gospel music, winning three Grammy Awards for his gospel recordings. He was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1998, and late into the Gospel Music Association's Gospel Music Hall of Fame.
Drawing
By drawing is here meant “the expression of form upon a plane surface.”
Art probably owes more to form for its range of expression than to colour. Many of the noblest things it is capable of conveying are expressed by form more directly than by anything else. And it is interesting to notice how some of the world's greatest artists have been very restricted in their use of colour, preferring to depend on form for their chief appeal. It is reported that Apelles only used three colours, black, red, and yellow, and Rembrandt used little else. Drawing, although the first, is also the last, thing the painter usually studies. There is more in it that can be taught and that repays constant application and effort. Colour would seem to depend much more on a natural sense and to be less amenable to teaching. A well-trained eye for the appreciation of form is what every student should set himself to acquire with all the might of which he is capable.
It is not enough in artistic drawing to portray accurately and in cold blood the appearance of objects. To express form one must first be moved by it. There is in the appearance of all objects, animate and inanimate, what has been called an “emotional significance,” a hidden rhythm that is not caught by the accurate, painstaking, but cold artist. The form significance of which we speak is never found in a mechanical reproduction like a photograph. You are never moved to say when looking at one, "What fine form."
It is difficult to say in what this quality consists. The emphasis and selection that is unconsciously given in a drawing done directly under the guidance of strong feeling, are too subtle to be tabulated; they escape analysis. But it is this selection of the significant and suppression of the non-essential that often gives to a few lines drawn quickly, and having a somewhat remote relation to the complex appearance of the real object, more vitality and truth than are to be found in a highly-wrought and painstaking drawing, during the process of which the essential and vital things have been lost sight of in the labour of the work; and the non-essential, which is usually more obvious, is allowed to creep in and obscure the original impression. Of course, had the finished drawing been done with the mind centred upon the particular form significance aimed at, and every touch and detail added in tune to this idea, the comparison might have been different. But it is rarely that good drawings are done this way. Fine things seem only to be seen in flashes, and the nature that can carry over the impression of one of these moments during the labour of a highly-wrought drawing is very rare, and belongs to the few great ones of the craft
alone.
Manifest Destiny
In 1803, President Thomas Jefferson doubled the size of the United States by purchasing land from the French government for $15 million. This territory stretched from the Mississippi River to the Rocky Mountains and from Canada to New Orleans. Jefferson believed that land ownership was essential for both the independence and the virtue of the American people; thus he saw continuous western expansion of the U.S. as fundamental to maintaining the quintessential American character.
By 1840, almost 40% of the U.S. population lived west of the Appalachian mountains, and many of these pioneers associated their migration west with the idea of freedom. While in Europe, there seemed to be a permanent working class, the western frontier in the U.S. seemed to promise an independence and upward mobility that was there for the taking. In 1845, journalist John O’Sullivan helped to popularize this idea by arguing that western expansion was part of the “republican project,” and that it was the “manifest destiny” of the American public to take “the great experiment of liberty” to the very edge of the continent. Without such continual expansion, he suggested, American freedom would stagnate.
Western expansion continued, with more and more states joining the union, despite struggles over whether or not and where to allow slavery, as well as several wars, and today, the idea of “going west” has become a metaphor for freedom and independence.
